% argument 1 corresponds to the sentence They would have thought of the people and we would have had a bill that would have done something about it . I say to you today , and I pledge to you , that America , first , can not afford to allow any pockets of unemployment to exist . We can not afford not to use the tremendous human resources that are here in this area that are not being used .
% argument 2 corresponds to the sentence In 1939 , when war came in Europe , unemployment in America , after 6 futile years of their trying to solve it , stood just under 9 ½ million . Let 's face it : It took war to solve the unemployment riddle for them . After the war was over opposition spokesmen forecast some 6 million unemployed .
% argument 3 corresponds to the sentence One will never learn from my opponent that employment declined less than seasonally last month and that unemployment went down more than seasonally . Unemployment dropped not only as to number but also as a percentage of the labor force . His pessimistic talk today recalls to my mind the situation in 1953 when the Eisenhower administration assumed responsibility for the Nation 's affairs .
% argument 4 corresponds to the sentence a81
% argument 5 corresponds to the sentence  This letter from this 12-year-old boy sums up the concern that I found all over the United States as we have traveled this country north , east , west , and south . This concern and the idea that this is the major of this campaign is held not only by Republicans but by Democrats and independents , and I find that as far as this particular issue is concerned , it transcends all the rest , because while people , of course , are interested in how government can provide the climate in which we can continue to have good jobs and high wages and how government can provide the necessary procedures through which we can have social security in times of unemployment and better schools and hospitals - while they are interested in these things , they know it does n't make any difference if we had all those things if we are not around to enjoy them . I say to you the biggest , major issue which we should talk about today above all others is this : Which of the two candidates for the Vice Presidency and the Presidency can best provide the leadership for America and the free world in these next 4 years which will keep the peace without surrender and which will extend the freedom throughout the world .
% argument 6 corresponds to the sentence Steel is at barely half capacity , homebuilding at two-thirds . Unemployment has been at recession levels for months , and the hours of work and take-home pay of factory workers has fallen . I am sure that the people of Scranton and of Pennsylvania do not want to trust their economic future to a political party which now threatens its third recession in just 6 years .
% argument 7 corresponds to the sentence For your problems are America 's problems and the worlds problems - and the party that has not helped you will not be able to help America , or the world . Twice a Democratic Congress has passed legislation to bring relief to areas of chronic unemployment such as Duluth - Superior . Our bill would have provided long term development loans and technical assistance to help develop the industry and business which would bring new jobs and increased income to your people .
% argument 8 corresponds to the sentence The Republicans adopted the seemingly simple and easy policy of tightening interest rates when demand was strong and prices were rising - a principle that requires allowing rates to fall when the economy needed stimulation . But the facts of the matter are that each successive peak and each successive valley in the economy has ended with higher and higher interest rates - with the result that paradoxically high rates accompanied heavy unemployment , low production , and a slack economy . For this policy has not worked .
% argument 9 corresponds to the sentence Are we facing a slump ? And I tell you we 're not . I point to the fact that we have had a greater increase in employment last month than is usually the case seasonally and a decrease in unemployment which is greater than usual . I also point to something else .
% argument 10 corresponds to the sentence I represent a section of the United States , New England , which has had the same problem that upper New York has had , defense contracts leaving , industries laying off , and we have begun to bring them back , particularly in electronics and in the Raytheon Co. I think defense contracts should be fairly distributed across the Nation . I also support the reestablishment of the Defense Manpower Policy No.4, which was thrown out in 1952 , which provided that those defense contracts would go to those areas which were able to meet the competitive price and had over 8 percent unemployment . I think we can use defense contracts to strengthen the economy as well as strengthen the country .
% argument 11 corresponds to the sentence a86
% argument 12 corresponds to the sentence This fast-moving technological revolution offers hope of vastly increased productivity - of greater abundance for all Americans . But we must harness it to serve the welfare of our people and not allow it to become an instrument of economic distress and unemployment . In the past 8 years nothing has been done to meet this growing challenge .
% argument 13 corresponds to the sentence But this would be basically true regardless of who wins . No President - Democratic or Republican - will be satisfied with growing unemployment , lagging economic growth or excessive price inflation that adversely affects our trade with other nations as well as our stability here at home . And both candidates are also equally opposed to excessive , unjustified or unnecessary government intervention in the economy - to needlessly unbalanced budgets and centralized government .
% argument 14 corresponds to the sentence If our economy is moving upward , then people are working , but if we stand still , if we have an administration frozen in the ice of its own indifference , if we have an administration which is interested - Mr. Nixon spoke at White Sulphur , W. Va . , to a group of businessmen in May. He said ,  As long as unemployment is under 4.5 million , it is not  - and I quote him -  a significant issue in the minds of the people .  I think it is .
% argument 15 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Every program which we now put forward and which both parties now endorse was written into the statute books over the opposition of a substantial group of the Republican Party , things which make life decent for all Americans , a chance for social security , for minimum wage , for unemployment compensation , for public housing . I have stood for those things in 14 years in the Congress .
% argument 16 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Since this campaign began , I have spoken in areas of heavy and prolonged unemployment in at least a dozen States . And I can tell you that those of you who live in this area are not alone in having thousands of citizens who want to work , who are able to work , but who have gone for months and even years without finding work .
% argument 17 corresponds to the sentence And this was only the latest in a series of record increases stretching over the past 8 years . Yet at the same time , average weekly earnings took another drop as they have in every month since May. Unemployment rose to 5.7 percent of the labor force , higher than it was in the recession year of 1954 . The number of men and women forced to work part time steadily increased .
% argument 18 corresponds to the sentence But the unpleasant facts are still there . And I can assure you that if Mr. Nixon can travel across this great land and remain indifferent to the problems of unemployment and economic slow-down which afflict many sections of America - problems which he is seeing at first hand - his vision will be no clearer and his awareness no greater from the White House in far-away Washington . For the Mr. Nixon who can look upon your distress - and say all is well - is the same Mr. Nixon who , in the past 8 years , has led the fight against every Democratic measure designed to increase the welfare of the American people - to put men back to work - and to help rebuild the economically distressed areas of America .
% argument 19 corresponds to the sentence We are not satisfied to have 16 million Americans living out their lives as senior citizens with an average social-security check of $ 78 a month . I am not satisfied as an American to have the average unemployment compensation check for an American out of work and seeking a job to be $ 31 a week in the richest country in the world . I am not satisfied to have the average for laundrywomen , and most of them are Negroes , in five large cities , to be 65 cents an hour for a 48-hour week .
% argument 20 corresponds to the sentence Today almost 4 million Americans are out of work and another 3 million must struggle to maintain a decent standard of living on part-time work and half-full pay envelopes . And nowhere has the impact of Republican unemployment been greater than in the 126 sections of this country which are classified as areas of chronic labor surplus , areas where large numbers of men , long out of work , can not find new jobs , areas where unemployment compensation checks are runnning out , where industry has declined or collapsed , where families struggle for the bare essentials of a decent life , where thousands are forced to depend on meager and inadequate Government surplus food packages for existence . These are the rapidly growing islands of poverty in the midst of a rich and abundant America - islands which have been growing in number and expanding in size under the leadership of a Republican Party which is indifferent to the urgent human needs of our own people and which has fought against every effort of the Democratic Party to eliminate poverty and distress in America .
% argument 21 corresponds to the sentence One last point I would like to make as far as recession is concerned : I think we can do some other things that will smooth out the business cycle . One in particular is with regard to unemployment compensation . I think that unemployment compensation - our unemployment compensation principles and programs - should be revised , so that we can have a more effective method .
% argument 22 corresponds to the sentence The figure prior to this was 8 percent , which had 8 percent over a period of a year or 18 months . I believe that that program could be useful in using defense contracts most of which are not by bid but which are negotiated , to put those in areas where it is possible , where there is chronic unemployment and little hope for new industry . I would feel both of those , plus the coal research bill , plus the national fuels policy , I believe all of those would be of assistance in eastern Kentucky and these other hard-hit areas .
% argument 23 corresponds to the sentence a138
% argument 24 corresponds to the sentence Unemployment is not insignificant to the children of the unemployed who are deprived of decent clothing and a decent diet . Unemployment is not insignificant to an America which desperately needs the skills and labor of all its citizens if it is to rebuild the strength which alone can maintain the cause of peace and freedom in a perilous and changing world . And unemployment is not insignificant to the Democratic Party - which has always pursued a policy of full employment - which has never said that there  must be some unemployment  and which is going to see that there are jobs for all Americans in the sixties .
% argument 25 corresponds to the sentence But in our effort to create a growing America - an America which will someday provide a job for every man who wants to work - we must not forget about those who are out of work today . We need to enact Federal standards of unemployment compensation so that jobless men can receive benefits adequate to allow them to obtain at least the basic rudiments of existence . We need to offer a richer and more varied diet to those forced to live on surplus foods .
% argument 26 corresponds to the sentence  If it remains there it is entitled to special Government help through defense procurement and other programs . But today the unemployment rate for the entire Nation is nearly 6 percent . The whole United States is rapidly becoming an area of substantial labor surplus .
% argument 27 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] * * * We must act and act promptly - to solve the problem of automation which threatens millions of Americans with technological unemployment . We can do this in several ways .
% argument 28 corresponds to the sentence For 6 years in the 1930 's the opposition failed miserably to solve the problem of unemployment . In 1939 , when war came in Europe , unemployment in America , after 6 futile years of their trying to solve it , stood just under 9 ½ million . Let 's face it : It took war to solve the unemployment riddle for them .
% argument 29 corresponds to the sentence The area redevelopment act which was passed by the Congress and twice vetoed by the President is such a program . It would provide areas of chronic unemployment with the tools which can bring new industry and new jobs to men who want to work , have the capacity to work but are unable to find work . I will continue to fight for this program in whatever capacity I am serving next year to help our distressed areas help themselves .
% argument 30 corresponds to the sentence Unemployment is not inisignificant to the almost 4 million Americans who want to work , but who ca n't find work - almost a quarter of a million of them in Michigan alone - or to the almost 900,000 Americans who have been out of work for more than 15 weeks and who are now classified as  long-term unemployed .  Unemployment is not insignificant to the families of the unemployed - families who are forced to live in substandard homes and are unable to maintain even a subsistence of living in the richest country on earth . Unemployment is not insignificant to the children of the unemployed who are deprived of decent clothing and a decent diet .
% argument 31 corresponds to the sentence Today , the country has 126 areas of substantial labor surplus - areas like Bay City , Flint , and the Iron Range - areas of declining industry - where there is poverty and hunger - where men have been searching for work , but can not find work . Unemployment in any of these areas harms the entire Nation , depriving all our industry of markets , decreasing total purchasing power , and depriving us of needed production . The distress may be regional , but the problem is a national problem .
% argument 32 corresponds to the sentence Consider their whole 20-year record . For 6 years in the 1930 's the opposition failed miserably to solve the problem of unemployment . In 1939 , when war came in Europe , unemployment in America , after 6 futile years of their trying to solve it , stood just under 9 ½ million .
% argument 33 corresponds to the sentence a76
% argument 34 corresponds to the sentence Every piece of important legislation of benefit to our people was opposed by the Republicans when they first came into being , away back to the Federal Reserve Board , all the reforms of the Roosevelt administration , social security , all the others , minimum wage , housing , benefits to the farmers , all opposed . Now , with that long history , TVA , the development of our resources , all in opposition , with that long history , how can we expect that that party and that candidate can move this country ahead , with all the changes coming on , the prospects for unemployment , the recession possibly this winter in 1961 , with our farm income down 25 percent , with 35 percent of our brightest boys and girls never seeing the inside of a college , who graduate from high school , our prestige in the world being affected , with Communists on the march , Castro on the march . I believe the United States has to make a decision .
% argument 35 corresponds to the sentence Unemployment is not insignificant to an America which desperately needs the skills and labor of all its citizens if it is to rebuild the strength which alone can maintain the cause of peace and freedom in a perilous and changing world . And unemployment is not insignificant to the Democratic Party - which has always pursued a policy of full employment - which has never said that there  must be some unemployment  and which is going to see that there are jobs for all Americans in the sixties . In fact , unemployment is only insignificant to Mr. Nixon and a Republican Party which has opposed every Democratic effort to put men back to work in the past 8 years - which has complacently stood by while unemployment rose from less than 2 million in 1952 to 4 million today and while Michigan lost more than 100,000 jobs despite an expanding population .
% argument 36 corresponds to the sentence Those three points . Mr. Nixon denied all of them , and now , in the last 2 months , in the last 2 weeks , one , we are , according to the figures released yesterday , we have more unemployment than we had in the recession at this time since 1958 ; two , we are going to have more cars unsold by the middle of November , 1 million of them , 1 million unsold cars , the largest inventory in the history of the United States . Three , we have lost since June $ 1 billion of the $ 18 billion that backs our currency which has moved abroad ; four , in the last 2 months , the administration 's figures on the amount of income that would be received from tax purposes from our economy has dropped between $ 3 and $ 4 billion .
% argument 37 corresponds to the sentence I have no doubt that the men of little faith who lead the Republican Party will criticize this goal as utopian and unrealistic . Such criticism comes easily to a party whose candidate has said that  unemployment is inevitable  - a party which has allowed the unemployment rate to soar to 5.7 percent - a party which has presided over a continual decline in our rate of economic growth . But such criticism will not halt our efforts .
% argument 38 corresponds to the sentence And despite these high rates , prices have continued to rise . As a result each successive peak and trough in the economy has ended with high interest rates accompanying heavy unemployment , low production and a slack economy . We do not reject monetary policy as an instrument of controlling inflation .
% argument 39 corresponds to the sentence He knows there are more people with more jobs than at any time in history . He knows there are pockets of unemployment . But he knows that his rump session of the Congress did n't do a thing about it , and we will , and it 's time we ought to lay these things out so that the people can understand it .
% argument 40 corresponds to the sentence If the people 's interest is going to be protected , the President of the United States must stand for that protection . It is the President of the United States that can set the goals for the country in housing , minimum wage , social security , unemployment compensation , and in equality of rights for all Americans , regardless of their race or color . I stand in direct succession to Truman and Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson , who advanced the right of all Americans to participate equally in our society .
% argument 41 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] These are the issues : What kind of a country are we going to build ? How are we going to stimulate the economy of this country ? What monetary and fiscal policies will we follow , which will provide full employment for our people ? How will we protect their unemployment compensation if they are out of work ? How will we be sure that they are adequately cared for when they are searching for work ? How will we take care of our children and make sure that they have the best educational system in the world ? Those of you who work for a living know that your children must be well educated if they are going to work their way in the 1960 's and the 1970 's . Industry is changing-steel and all the rest .
% argument 42 corresponds to the sentence However , there are other specific measures which can be adopted with discretion according to precise needs of the moment . ( a ) A balanced budget - except during times of emergency affecting the national security or a high rate of unemployment . ( b ) An insistence that collective bargaining takes public interest as well as private advantage into account .
% argument 43 corresponds to the sentence I know what it is in the little store in which I worked to see a child of an unemployed man come in and have to ask to put things on the bill , knowing that his dad or hers probably was n't going to get a job for a while . I know what continued unemployment can do , not only to the men , but worse , to the morale of the children . I know what it is for a family to attempt to meet the bills at the end of the month .
% argument 44 corresponds to the sentence Promises for what ? Promises that would go back . Promises that would restore in this country policies that reduced the value of our dollars ; promises that would bring back in this country policies which discouraged business investment , policies which resulted in unemployment , policies which stagnated the American economy . I just want to say in that connection that , as you consider the promises that have been made in this campaign , we all must remember that we pay for them , and as far as my opponent is concerned all that he offers is - what ? He offers promises ; promises that would add $ 15 billion a year to our Federal spending in Washington .
% argument 45 corresponds to the sentence Franklin Roosevelt once reminded us that  we can not be content * * * if some fraction of our people - whether it be one-third or one-fifth or one-tenth - is ill-fed , ill-clothed , ill-housed , and insecure .  But Mr. Nixon and the party he leads say they are content , just as they have always been content , in the face of poverty and unemployment and an America with its most urgent needs unmet . The Republican Party which Mr. Nixon leads today is the same Republican Party which for half a century has opposed every single progressive measure which the Democrats have designed to improve human welfare and reduce human misery - the party which fought against the New Deal and tried to block the Fair Deal - the party which , in the past 8 years , has vetoed aid to areas of unemployment , blocked efforts to improve unemployment compensation , opposed raising the minimum wage , refused to expand the distribution of surplus food to the hungry , and failed to offer one single program to increase the welfare of the American people .
% argument 46 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Fifth , we have to provide job retraining and also decent unemployment compensation standards on a Federal level for those who are thrown out of work . This is an issue which is just beginning , but it is the kind of all issue which I think the Democratic Party recognizes .
% argument 47 corresponds to the sentence a47
% argument 48 corresponds to the sentence And I believe , that , in November , the American people are going to elect a President willing to carry out that pledge . But the problems of unemployment and poverty are not confined to West Virginia . This conference proves that .
% argument 49 corresponds to the sentence a93
% argument 50 corresponds to the sentence a118
% argument 51 corresponds to the sentence Good water , power , transportation , those are necessary to develop the economy of the United States in the 1960 's . Sixth , I think we must formulate special programs which will be of assistance in those areas which are chronically hard hit by unemployment , areas where it is 7 , 8 , 9 , or 10 percent , and it may have gone on for 2 or 3 years . I had one of them in my own State , Lawrence , Mass .
% argument 52 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Social security , unemployment compensation , housing legislation , care for the aged - all of these programs - civil rights - in 1953 and 1954 the Republican Party controlled the White House , the Senate and the House . Not one single civil rights bill saw the light of day in either body .
% argument 53 corresponds to the sentence a32
% argument 54 corresponds to the sentence There are depressed areas not only in eastern Kentucky , but all over the country . There are too many small business failures , and too much big business unemployment , not only here in Louisville , but all over the country . Steel production is too low , not only in Newport , but all over the country .
% argument 55 corresponds to the sentence It is no wonder that in the 1920 's the recession and depression of 1929 was preceded by the sharpest decline in agricultural income that the country had seen up to that date . And now here in Indiana , and in this city of Terre Haute , you have unemployment of nearly 7 percent , you see steel mills in Gary and elsewhere in this State which are working 55 or 60 percent of capacity , and every merchant and every banker in the State of Indiana can tell you that this September and this October have been as difficult and hard as the September and October of 1957 , and the September and October at the end of 1953 , which preceded the recessions of 1954 and 1958 . I do n't believe this country can afford another recession .
% argument 56 corresponds to the sentence In fact , unemployment is only insignificant to Mr. Nixon and a Republican Party which has opposed every Democratic effort to put men back to work in the past 8 years - which has complacently stood by while unemployment rose from less than 2 million in 1952 to 4 million today and while Michigan lost more than 100,000 jobs despite an expanding population . For I believe that the American people are going to reject a party which - again in Mr. Nixon 's words - believes that  unemployment is inevitable ,  a party which lacks faith in the capacity of a strong and growing America to provide jobs for all its people , a party which , in the most fundamental sense , is letting America run down because it is failing to build America up , a party whose candidate is all too ready to threaten war but is unwilling to build up the strength which is the only guarantee of peace , who is always willing to speak loudly , but is unwilling to be sure that America carries a big stick . The Republican slowdown of the American economy is reflected in the record of the past 30 years .
% argument 57 corresponds to the sentence And behind the statistics are people . I have seen in West Virginia and Pennsylvania what unemployment means . It means hungry children - families unable to afford decent clothes or a decent home to live in. Let us face facts : We will not have full employment and rapid economic growth in America without positive policies to get it .
% argument 58 corresponds to the sentence Have you ever talked to a Negro mother as I have ? Have you ever heard her tell you , try to explain to a child in the South ? How do you explain that she can go into a store and buy a loaf of bread but ca n't sit at the counter and have a Coca - Cola ? This makes you understand that it is n't enough just to pass laws ; it is n't enough just to make speeches , but what you have to do is do what the Attorney General of the United States must do , not just a lot of promises and talk , but get in the leaders of chainstores and get them to agree to break down this barrier so that we can remove this block from the people of this country and our Nation . What about unemployment ? How can you believe me when I say I will move this economy forward , that we will use all the power of this Government to fight unemployment , to fight recession ; but , more than that , we 're going to use it in a positive way to stimulate employment , to open new avenues for expansion of economy ? How do you know ? How can you believe me ? I 'll tell you why . Because I know what it means .
% argument 59 corresponds to the sentence I take our case to you because I am confident that , as citizens of one world , we are willing to share our plenty with our brothers in the new states of Asia and Africa , and with those in Europe and Latin America , who need our help and our friendship . I take my case to you because I am confident that the American people are not going to tolerate pockets of poverty and chronic unemployment in this land , the waste of idle men and women who are ready , willing , and able to work , or the decline of our farms . I take my case to you because I know you agree with me that racial discrimination must be eliminated everywhere in our society ; in jobs , in housing , in voting , in lunch counters , and in schools .
% argument 60 corresponds to the sentence a36
% argument 61 corresponds to the sentence I am not talking about prosperity for our largest banks , our largest defense contractors , or our largest investors who have made record profits under the high interest rate procurement and tax policies of this administration . I am talking about prosperity for all the people - for the women in some of our largest stores who are being paid 65 cents an hour - for the retired cutter who can not pay his medical bills on an average social security check of $ 72 a month - for the unemployed fitter who must support his family on an unemployment check averaging less than $ 35 a week - for the Negro accountant who has to take a job as a messenger - for the Puerto Rican lawyer who has to drive a truck - the children who have to grow up in overcrowded slums and go to overcrowded schools - they are not sharing in what Mr. Nixon calls unprecedented prosperity . But to meet their needs effectively , according to Mr. Nixon , would take higher taxes or inflation .
% argument 62 corresponds to the sentence a128
% argument 63 corresponds to the sentence First , we must spur the rate of national economic growth so as to take up the slack now existing in heavy industry - such as steel , chemicals , and autos - and in service industries - such as building and construction . Secondly , we must administer existing defense and other Federal procurement programs in a manner that , consistent with the national interest , areas with idle facilities and idle skills are given priority before those skills are disgraced and chronic unemployment takes over . Third , to that end , we will repass , and I would sign , the depressed-areas bill twice vetoed by the Republicans .
% argument 64 corresponds to the sentence Listening to the opposition , one would never know that there are almost 68 million Americans at work in our $ 500 billion economy and that Americans are earning at a record annual rate of over $ 408 billion . One will never learn from my opponent that employment declined less than seasonally last month and that unemployment went down more than seasonally . Unemployment dropped not only as to number but also as a percentage of the labor force .
% argument 65 corresponds to the sentence I was the floor manager and as chairman of the Subcommittee on Labor brought the first area redevelopment bill to the floor of the Senate . We passed that bill for depressed areas , and I represented a number of them - the city of Lawrence Mass , had 30 percent unemployment for 4 years . I brought that bill and managed it through the Senate .
% argument 66 corresponds to the sentence To provide these jobs , our economy must grow much more rapidly - for today under Republican policies which stop growth we are growing more slowly than every other industrial nation . And it is significant that our prestige all over the world has been declining at the same time that the American economy has been almost stagnant with industries operating at half capacity and unemployment going up and up . Now , how can Government policy help create the jobs we need and provide full employment ? First , we must reverse the tight-money and high-interest-rate policies which have choked off investment and kept the small businessman and farmer from getting the capital they need to survive and expand .
% argument 67 corresponds to the sentence If you agree with a policy of no new starts , a policy which does not develop the resources of the Wabash or the Ohio Rivers , if you agree that $ 1.25 minimum wage in a company making more than a million dollars a year is excessive , and , to use Mr. Nixon 's words ,  extreme  ; if you believe that medical care for the aged tied to social security is too extreme , if you believe that these programs which I believe are essential to the maintenance of full employment , if you believe that they are too extreme , then you should vote for Mr. Nixon . If you believe that the area redevelopment bill , which has been vetoed twice , which would mean so much to this community and other communities , which are hard hit by chronic unemployment , and you want it vetoed a third time , you should vote for Mr. Nixon . If you believe that Thomas E. Dewey and William McKinley and Harding , and Coolidge and Landon are the kind of leaders that the United States needs in the sixties , then you should vote for Mr. Nixon .
% argument 68 corresponds to the sentence The conferees will be joined by business , labor , and civic leaders from an eight-State area surrounding Charleston . Under discussion will be ways and means of creating more jobs to take care of the growing unemployment problem throughout the Nation . Specific attention will be given the problem of long-term chronic unemployment in 177 areas throughout the Nation , the Senator said , but the conference will address itself mainly to the larger problem of jobless workers wherever they may be .
% argument 69 corresponds to the sentence There have been two recessions within 7 years , and there are economists who believe a third is coming . Unemployment is dangerously high even on the national average . Workers in many important industrial communities have been still more seriously injured .
% argument 70 corresponds to the sentence Now , if you regard those programs as extreme , I believe you should support Mr. Nixon and the Republican Party . But if you believe that you can not have a prosperous town in this State if your agricultural income continues to drop , if you recognize that under the program which Mr. Nixon put forward , which is a continuation of the Benson program , and corn which sold 8 years ago for $ 1.50 sells in this State at 95 cents today , will sell next year at 80 cents , and down and down it will go , because this administration 's farm program provides for a free market price , and the free market price for corn in this country with unlimited production will take that down at least 20 percent below what it is selling at today , and if any merchant in this State feels he can prosper with corn on the downward trend , with unemployment in this State , at 6.8 percent to 7 percent , any merchant in this country who feels he can move forward when steel production is at 50 percent of capacity , which it is in the United States , when 7 out of 8 International Harvester plants in Illinois closed down in the last 2 weeks , and they may open some of them in October - if that is the kind of country you want and that is the kind of economy you believe in , if those are the programs you want , I believe you should vote for Mr. Nixon . But if you believe it is time this country moved forward , if you believe we have stood on dead center long enough , if you believe that the balance of power in the world should shift in our direction instead of against us , if you believe that the United States should be first - not first but , if , sometimes or perhaps , but first , period .
% argument 71 corresponds to the sentence  Is it true ? And the answer is , Of course it is n't true . The answer is - and now I 'm going to give you my version - the answer is that America , is moving forward , that unemployment went down more than usual last month and employment went up to record heights . The answer is that America will continue to move forward , continue to move forward , that is , unless we have some of our politicians talk us into a recession - and we are n't going to allow that to happen .
% argument 72 corresponds to the sentence Last year , the United States had the lowest rate of economic growth of any major industrialized society in the world , and the result of that is this year only 50 percent of our steel mill capacity is being used . We have the highest unemployment in this month of any month except for the two recessions of 1954 and 1958 , and the one in 1949 , ever since 1945 . This country is moving into a serious and difficult time in the life of our country , and in our relations around the world .
% argument 73 corresponds to the sentence if we want jobs , the way is through peace , with peace , and without inflation . And also my opponent knows this : He knows the unemployment figure dropped last month and , you know , a funny thing , that same Detroit paper that carried that story had another eight column headline right below it . You know what it said ?  Car Sales at Alltime High .
% argument 74 corresponds to the sentence Steel production is going up . Unemployment is going down , and we find that more Americans are employed today , earning more , spending more , investing more than at any time in history . Why ? Because the American people believe in America .
% argument 75 corresponds to the sentence We 'll see that we move ahead in science . We will see to it that we have social security and unemployment insurance , that we will extend all of these things that are good for America and that Americans need , but I say to you also , as President , that there will be certainly not one dollar spent that does n't need to be spent . And here you 've got a choice .
% argument 76 corresponds to the sentence In order to make good on arbitrary budget promises , they cut back aircraft and missile programs essential to deter a surprise attack and then partially reinstate them when election day nears . This is false economy at its worst , but it is no more false than the detestable charge that I would shift defense jobs from this State to some other area of unemployment . What Mr. Nixon does n't understand is that the President of the United States represents all the people in all the States .
% argument 77 corresponds to the sentence Five times they have ignored the President 's recommendations and , instead , they have passed two pork-barrel bills of their own , each in an election year , 1958 and 1960 , and each so full of politics they were obviously nothing but veto-bait . The 1960 bill supported by my opponent was so bad , for example , that relatively little help would have gone to the areas of chronic unemployment really needing it . This politically inspired , opportunistic bill would have frittered away much of its assistance on places bearing no resemblance to our few truly distressed areas .
% argument 78 corresponds to the sentence They voted against the social security in 1935 , and they voted against the medical care for the aged in 1960 . They opposed unemployment compensation in the thirties , after the State of Wisconsin had originally invented it , and they opposed Federal standards for unemployment compensation in 1958 and 1959 . Parties do mean something .
% argument 79 corresponds to the sentence The raising of the minimum wage and its extension to cover millions of unprotected American workers must be one of the first items on the agenda of the next administration . Our unemployment benefits , too , must be standardized and extended . By assuring working Americans of a living wage , by assuring unemployed Americans that they will be able to have the basic necessities of life , we help not only New England against substandard competition ; we help the entire Nation .
% argument 80 corresponds to the sentence You won a great victory 2 years ago here in California , and this State is going to lead the way to another great victory exactly 2 months from tonight . Pat Brown , working with a Democratic legislature , has written human rights into California law - broader unemployment compensation . More help for the aged and needy .
% argument 81 corresponds to the sentence To us the major issue is the fight against communism . But to most of the peoples of the world , that is a far-off battle - compared to their battles against poverty and disease and unemployment and illiteracy . Neither do they share our belief that our way , the private enterprise way , is necessarily the best path for any country under any circumstances .
% argument 82 corresponds to the sentence A real  truth squad ,  for example , would find it necessary to ask Mr. Nixon such questions as these : 1. Why do you repeat the statement that real wages have gone up 15 percent during the present administration compared with only 2 percent in the previous one , when your own Department of Labor figures clearly establish that the increase between September 1945 ( the first postwar month ) and January 1953 was 18.3 percent while the increase between January 1953 and August 1960 has been 13.7 percent . 2. Why have you not personally admitted that you misquoted me when you said that in my Detroit speech on Labor Day I had said  What the American labor movement wants for America is what I want for America  when this statement did not appear in either my advance statement or in the speech as actually delivered ? 3. When you insist that Federal aid to teachers salaries means Federal control over education , are you aware of the fact that the present program for aid to federally impacted areas has been free of such control , and that the provision which you killed with your tie-breaking vote contained explicit language ruling out any Federal  direction , supervision , or control over the policy determinations , personnel , program of instruction , or the administration or operation of any school or school system  ? 4. How can you claim credit for the present administration for more new water project starts than any other time in our history , when the stated Republican position except in campaign election years has been a no-new-starts policy that the Democratic Congress has sought to overcome ? 5. How can you call the vetoed 1960 Democratic bill on depressed areas  straight pork barrel  when your own Secretary of Labor , just 24 hours before the veto was announced , called the bill  good enough so that any Senator or Congressman from a State with areas of chronic unemployment would have no alternative but vote for it  ? 6. Why do you take credit for the present levels of operations at the National Institutes of Health , when the Democratic Congress , ignoring threats of veto , raised the administration request from $ 400 million to $ 560 million for the present year - the sixth consecutive year that Democrats have raised administration requests ? 7. On October 5 , in Philadelphia , you talked about civil rights and said ,  My position and that of my running mate has been clear and straightforward . We have said the same thing in every section of the country .
% argument 83 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Can you possibly say that our power is increasing when you know that next winter and next spring the United States will face a most serious crisis over Berlin at a time when our strength is not rising in relation to that of the Communists ? Do you feel that this administration has solved the problem of unemployment , when we have more people out of work now , this fall , than any time except for the three postwar recessions ? Do you feel that your children are going to get jobs when you realize that we have to find 25,000 new jobs a week for the next 10 years in order to provide employment for our people ? I believe this country can meet its responsibilities , to its own citizens and those around the world , but I think we have to do better than we are doing and that is the issue . Do you agree ? I think you do .
% argument 84 corresponds to the sentence We are going to have to build a better life for our people . As long as there are 15 million American homes which are substandard , as long as there are millions of Americans who are not even paid a dollar an hour , as long as there are hundreds of thousands of Americans out of work , living on an average unemployment compensation check of $ 31 a week - what do they do when they go out of a job ? Where do they go to work ? How do they keep their families ? How do they pay their rent ? These are the problems that disturb America . How do we maintain our position in the world ? How do we provide fairness and equality of opportunity for all Americans ? I think that on Tuesday my job and responsibility and that of Mr. Nixon 's is over .
% argument 85 corresponds to the sentence By pursuing this goal we keep faith with those who save ; we protect those who live on a fixed income ; and we build world confidence in the soundness and integrity of the dollar . It is equally urgent that we do not achieve this kind of stability at the expense of any one group in the economy , such as farmers - or at the price of recessions , unemployment , and stagnation . I believe we can keep our prices stable while maintaining higher and more stable levels of production and employment .
% argument 86 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] And we will enact a bill which has passed the U.S. Senate twice , which has been vetoed twice , which provides assistance to those who live in distressed areas , which will help send Government contracts , which will provide loans for businessmen , which will provide vocational retraining , which will provide supplemental unemployment compensation benefits , so that in these distressed areas where unemployment is 8 , 9 , and 10 percent , we can help these places move again . This is a national problem , not a problem for a county in West Virginia or a county in my own State of Massachusetts .
% argument 87 corresponds to the sentence I am proud of this support . I know that the American labor movement wants for America what I want for America : the elimination of poverty and unemployment , the reestablishment of America 's position of leadership in the world , the end of racial discrimination everywhere in our society . I know the American labor movement opposes what I oppose : complacency , unemployment , economic stagnation , and national insecurity .
% argument 88 corresponds to the sentence He can not run on a platform setting one State against another . I want full employment in California and New York and across the Nation ; it is Mr. Nixon who calls unemployment inevitable . ( 4 ) Civil rights are not merely of importance to minority groups .
% argument 89 corresponds to the sentence He knows it , the economy is moving up . He knows that unemployment went down more than seasonally last month and employment went up more than seasonally , and you know a funny thing ? In that same Detroit paper that I saw was an eight-column head  Kennedy Predicts Recession .  You know what an eight-column head right underneath it was ?  Auto Sales at an Alltime High in America .
% argument 90 corresponds to the sentence It means jobs and homes and schools for our children . Lack of growth means unemployment and pockets of poverty and a weak , declining nation . Under Republican leadership , we have not been growing .
% argument 91 corresponds to the sentence That is why there are major pockets of unemployment in every center of heavy industry - in Buffalo , in Seattle , in Detroit , in Pittsburgh , in Youngstown . That is why unemployment is edging toward the 6 million mark . That is why the economy seems to be sliding into the third recession in 6 years .
% argument 92 corresponds to the sentence I think that you know the issues of this campaign well . There is no community in the United States in the last 2 or 3 years that has learned a harder lesson of what it means to live under a Republican administration [ applause ] and an administration which has permitted unemployment in this community to double in the last 12 months . [ Response from the audience .
% argument 93 corresponds to the sentence Once again the economy surged to levels that they so like to cite . So what judgment is to be made of the opposition 's 20-year stewardship of the Nation 's economic affairs ? 1. Its policy was a tragic failure in solving the problem of unemployment during the peacetime years from 1933 to 1939 . 2. During the following 6 years , preparation for war and war itself solved the unemployment problem for them .
% argument 94 corresponds to the sentence But both of them lived many , many years longer , and both of them , the longer they lived , gained love and affection from the American people - and I would only hope tonight that , however this election turns out , Senator Kennedy and I in the years ahead will be able to conduct ourselves with the dignity , the decency which earned the esteem and the love of the American people for the two men who were engaged in that great campaign of 1928 . The decline in unemployment throughout the country reported last week by the Departments of Labor and Commerce is good news for America . It must have come as a disappointing surprise to the opposition camp from which we are hearing so much foreboding talk about the future these days .
% argument 95 corresponds to the sentence And unemployment is not insignificant to the Democratic Party - which has always pursued a policy of full employment - which has never said that there  must be some unemployment  and which is going to see that there are jobs for all Americans in the sixties . In fact , unemployment is only insignificant to Mr. Nixon and a Republican Party which has opposed every Democratic effort to put men back to work in the past 8 years - which has complacently stood by while unemployment rose from less than 2 million in 1952 to 4 million today and while Michigan lost more than 100,000 jobs despite an expanding population . For I believe that the American people are going to reject a party which - again in Mr. Nixon 's words - believes that  unemployment is inevitable ,  a party which lacks faith in the capacity of a strong and growing America to provide jobs for all its people , a party which , in the most fundamental sense , is letting America run down because it is failing to build America up , a party whose candidate is all too ready to threaten war but is unwilling to build up the strength which is the only guarantee of peace , who is always willing to speak loudly , but is unwilling to be sure that America carries a big stick .
% argument 96 corresponds to the sentence a65
% argument 97 corresponds to the sentence Thank you very much . Mr. Nixon 's contention that the hard-hit unemployment areas of the country would have received more help under the administration area redevelopment bill than under the Douglas - Flood bill , which I supported and which President Eisenhower vetoed , is patently absurd . The Vice President is reported to have said in Scranton , Pa .
% argument 98 corresponds to the sentence They tell a story of the division between the Republicans and the Democrats on the great issues of benefit to our people . Whether they are Federal aid to education , whether they are better unemployment compensation , whether they are fiscal and monetary policies which stimulate our economy , whether they are housing legislation or roads or whatever it maybe , I think our record is clear . We have come down on behalf of the people , and I therefore am proud , as the standard bearer for a party which in this century has produced Woodrow Wilson , Franklin Roosevelt , and Harry Truman - I am proud to come to this city tonight and ask your support .
% argument 99 corresponds to the sentence They have all been tried before . They were tried first from 1932 up until about 1939 , when the war spending began to come in , and after 7 years of that kind of policy there were still nine and a half million people unemployed in America and it took a war to reduce the unemployment . They were tried again in peacetime during the Truman administration , the same kind of policies that they 're advocating today .
% argument 100 corresponds to the sentence They are not the goals of his party , and Mr. Nixon and his party have opposed and killed every one of these programs . And their opposition - an opposition born of indifference to the urgent needs of the American people - has helped transform the Duluth - Superior area into a section of declining income , and increasing unemployment . But northern Minnesota has not been the only area to suffer .
% argument 101 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Kennedy did n't mention this , nor did he mention that today there are almost 68 million jobs in America at the highest wages in history . Nor did he mention that last month employment rose more than usual and unemployment dropped more than usual . He also inevitably fails to mention that these Republican years America has enjoyed the greatest real prosperity it has ever known .
% argument 102 corresponds to the sentence Getting down to specific problems of concern to business , Senator Kennedy feels that the most effective antidote for inflation is increased productivity and greater production . He advocates a balanced budget , except during times of emergency affecting the national security , or high rate of unemployment . Collective bargaining must take public as well as private interest into account .
% argument 103 corresponds to the sentence I believe the next President of the United States should sign the following bills , and if I am elected I will do so : 1. The area distress bill , a bill which put the credit and power and vigor of the economy of the Federal Government in those areas where unemployment is higher than 7 or 8 percent for a long period of time . In other words , the Federal Government will loan its credit to businesses that wish to come to areas such as this , will provide vocational retraining for older workers , provide supplemental unemployment compensation benefits for those who are out of work for a long time , will aid in cleansing the rivers , will aid in trying to bring new industry into this area . We will , if we pass defense manpower policy No.4 again , steer defense contracts into those areas with a high level of unemployment .
% argument 104 corresponds to the sentence And I believe that , in November , the American people are going to elect a President willing to carry out that pledge . But the problems of unemployment and poverty are not confined to West Virginia . This conference proves that .
% argument 105 corresponds to the sentence These are the danger signals , the growing weakness , which has caused many economists to say that we may be entering our third major recession in 6 years . And growing unemployment and declining production tend to confirm this prophecy . Much of this growing decline in our relative economic strength has been due to Republican failure to realize that a growing economy requires bold and imaginative use of the tools of economic policy and of our abundant resources if that growth is to be maintained and stimulated .
% argument 106 corresponds to the sentence The sorry lack of concern for the American people too often revealed by my opponent and his followers can be no better documented than by the record on distressed areas legislation . Five years in a row the President has recommended Federal help for those areas in our country affected with chronic unemployment . But my opponent and his party have preferred to make a political football out of a pressing human problem .
% argument 107 corresponds to the sentence And nothing more clearly demonstrates the extent and depth and scope of that indifference than a statement which Mr. Nixon made this June to Republican businessmen in Hot Springs , Va . Unless unemployment goes over 4.5 million it can not become a significant issue in the minds of a great many people * * * there must be some unemployment . I do not agree - and the Democratic Party has never agreed .
% argument 108 corresponds to the sentence I think that unemployment compensation - our unemployment compensation principles and programs - should be revised , so that we can have a more effective method . That means longer periods which the unemployment compensation covers and also standards which are more general throughout the States , so that you can have a greater cushion during a recession than we presently have . These are the devices that I would use , one , to anticipate recession and , second , to fight it as you get into it and as you get out .
% argument 109 corresponds to the sentence I do not agree - and the Democratic Party has never agreed . Unemployment is not inisignificant to the almost 4 million Americans who want to work , but who ca n't find work - almost a quarter of a million of them in Michigan alone - or to the almost 900,000 Americans who have been out of work for more than 15 weeks and who are now classified as  long-term unemployed .  Unemployment is not insignificant to the families of the unemployed - families who are forced to live in substandard homes and are unable to maintain even a subsistence of living in the richest country on earth .
% argument 110 corresponds to the sentence We have urban renewal and housing measures , but to replace slums faster than they are spreading , those measures must be expanded . We have unemployment insurance benefits that need higher nationwide standards , a water pollution control program that needs stepping up , dams that are planned but unbuilt . We have legislation to help our depressed areas of long-term unemployment that needs to be passed again - so it can be signed instead of vetoed .
% argument 111 corresponds to the sentence That should concern us all . 2. My second concern is unemployment . Between November 1957 and August 1960 the rate of jobless workers , seasonally adjusted , has been below 5 percent of the labor force in only 3 months out of 34 .
% argument 112 corresponds to the sentence Throughout the entire Nation men and women - almost 4 million of them - are looking for jobs . Economists tell us that an unemployment rate of 6 percent is the danger signal . When a community passes that point it is officially regarded as an area of  substantial labor surplus .
% argument 113 corresponds to the sentence It is sound . We have seen unemployment move down last month more than seasonally and employment rise more than seasonally . New car sales are moving up .
% argument 114 corresponds to the sentence Today the country has 126 areas of substantial labor surplus , areas of declining industry , where there is poverty and hunger , where men have been searching for work , but can not find that work . Unemployment in any of these areas harms the entire Nation , depriving all our industry of markets , decreasing total purchasing power , and depriving us of needed production . The distress may be regional , but the problem is a national problem .
% argument 115 corresponds to the sentence And in both 1958 and 1959 , an average of more than 1 million idle workers remained out of a job for more than 15 weeks - the highest number since before the war . These figures tell a human story - the story of unemployment benefits running out - of 3 million Americans forced to live on an unhealthy tasteless diet of surplus foods - a story of hardship and personal tragedy . What , then , does Mr. Nixon mean when he says we are enjoying the greatest prosperity that Americans have ever enjoyed ? Perhaps he believes that if only 1 out of every 10 Americans are unable to find full-time work , the other 9 out of every 10 must be doing all right .
% argument 116 corresponds to the sentence I will tell you today the things that I believe are necessary , the program that I stand for . I will tell you , for example , that I think we need economic policies that will stimulate the creative energies of a hundred and eighty million people , that will increase employment , that we need Government policies , for example , which will provide better guarantees and better protection against unemployment than we presently have . I will tell you today , for example , that I think those policies will produce more economic programs and progress than will the policies of our opponents .
% argument 117 corresponds to the sentence I would like to have him make that speech in some of the places I was in yesterday , coal mine areas , factories , 50 percent of capacity in steel , even less than that in coal . But then the White House added ,  Unemployment is widely disappearing . We are nearing the final triumph over poverty than ever before in the history of our land .
% argument 118 corresponds to the sentence What we have done in the Eisenhower administration is that we have developed policies that have brought high employment but without war , and I can assure you that we are going to do everything we can to expand the economy , to continue to see that those Americans who want to work will be able to get work . My last point is this : Look at the unemployment figures . They are going down every month .
% argument 119 corresponds to the sentence And the number of distressed areas , areas of substantial labor surplus , was more than 130 . When income goes down and the cost of living goes up , who is hit the hardest ? 1. Next to those who ca n't find any work at all , those on an inadequate unemployment compensation or public assistance payment , the hardest hit by the job-price squeeze are those Americans who are forced to work for substandard wages . This year the Democratic Party tried to raise the minimum wage to $ 1.25 an hour , to $ 50 for a 48-hour week .
% argument 120 corresponds to the sentence These are programs for which I stand . Also , we believe in programs which would deal with the problems of unemployment more effectively . Programs which will deal with the problems of the depressed areas .
% argument 121 corresponds to the sentence So part of it requires a local effort and part of it requires a State effort and part of it requires a national effort . I believe the next President of the United States should sign the following bills , and if I am elected I will do so : 1. The area distress bill , a bill which put the credit and power and vigor of the economy of the Federal Government in those areas where unemployment is higher than 7 or 8 percent for a long period of time . In other words , the Federal Government will loan its credit to businesses that wish to come to areas such as this , will provide vocational retraining for older workers , provide supplemental unemployment compensation benefits for those who are out of work for a long time , will aid in cleansing the rivers , will aid in trying to bring new industry into this area .
% argument 122 corresponds to the sentence The Democratic Party has opposed in the past and will just as strongly oppose in the future the attempts to weaken the Railway Labor Act . We are equally determined to strengthen the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act . During the past 6 years the Democratic Congress has done much to improve these two important enactments .
% argument 123 corresponds to the sentence First , while I said that the American economy was failing to move ahead fast enough to meet the needs of the Nation or the people , Mr. Nixon said that  We 'd never had it so good ,  that the Nation was enjoying  unexampled prosperity .  Since that time unemployment has risen to more than 6 percent , the highest since the great recession of 1958 . In the past 5 months we have lost almost $ 1 billion of our dwindling gold reserves to foreign banks .
% argument 124 corresponds to the sentence Here is what Mr. Nixon said ; making one of his speeches to Republican businessmen in Hot Springs , Va . , here is what he said :  Unless unemployment goes over 4.5 million ,  Mr. Nixon says ,  Unless unemployment goes over 4.5 million , it can not become a significant issue in the minds of a great many people . There must , after all , be some unemployment .
% argument 125 corresponds to the sentence Only government - the combined efforts of local , State , and Federal Governments - can build the dams and highways and schools on which the strength of our free enterprise economy depends . Sixth , we must formulate special programs of assistance to those areas of our country which are suffering from severe economic distress and chronic unemployment . Today the country has 126 areas of substantial labor surplus , areas of declining industry , where there is poverty and hunger , where men have been searching for work , but can not find that work .
% argument 126 corresponds to the sentence That problem , for America , has been solved . What have not been solved are those problems which lie largely in the realm of public action - bad housing , poverty , recessions , unemployment , discrimination , crowded and obsolete schools and hospitals and libraries , inadequate recreation , the breakdown of mass transportation , polluted air and water , juvenile delinquency . These problems are compounded as we become more and more an urban nation .
% argument 127 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon has fancy new labels for the old Benson product , and he talks of jail sentences and runaway inflation if my program is adopted - but the American farmer , who remembers that food prices were actually lower in 1952 when his income was much higher , agrees that it is time the laws of supply and demand were put to work for him instead of always operating against him . ( 4 ) Unemployment : Mr. Nixon , who thinks several million unemployed is inevitable and nothing to worry about , is satisfied today with what he calls our  unprecedented prosperity  - but I think we can do better in putting our unemployed back to work , using our idle capacity in steel , coal and other industries , and finding jobs for the thousands of young men and women who are pouring into our labor market every week of the year . ( 5 ) Trusting the voters : Mr. Nixon and the Republicans are unwilling to reveal to the American people reports containing the facts about our prestige , the truth about the Nixon - Khrushchev talks , the basis of the present missile gap as contained in the Gaither report , and the facts about whether we are heading for a third recession prepared by the Department of Commerce .
% argument 128 corresponds to the sentence When the economy is not growing , few businesses are looking for new sites in which to locate plants . And when 159 areas of substantial unemployment are competing for the few new plants that are being built , no single area like Scranton can do much on its own . And , what is worse , most economists now agree that another recession is underway .
% argument 129 corresponds to the sentence But we can always do better and I am determined that we shall do better in quickening the pace of our economic advance and in minimizing interruptions to it . I am determined to undertake every sensible measure to that end , to lift to ever higher levels the number of jobs in America , to reduce unemployment further , and to utilize more fully our industrial capacity in steel and other lines To achieve that goal we must release fully the greatest creative force in human affairs - the spirit of individual enterprise in 180 million Americans . That effort calls for a many-sided program which I have been developing , and will continue to develop , in this campaign .
% argument 130 corresponds to the sentence Fourth , we must move to meet the growing crisis of automation - the replacement of men by machines - which has already thrown thousands of men out of work here in Michigan and which threatens the jobs of millions of men throughout the country . In the past 8 years nothing has been done to harness automation to serve the welfare of all our people , rather than permitting it to become an instrument of economic distress and unemployment . In 1961 , a Democratic President will call a conference of leaders of industry and labor to formulate new programs for dealing with the problems of automation .
arg(a59).
arg(a114).
arg(a126).
arg(a81).
arg(a71).
arg(a130).
arg(a31).
arg(a29).
arg(a85).
arg(a57).
arg(a67).
arg(a91).
arg(a84).
arg(a53).
arg(a19).
arg(a55).
arg(a73).
arg(a38).
arg(a48).
arg(a98).
arg(a110).
arg(a82).
arg(a24).
arg(a42).
arg(a33).
arg(a65).
arg(a66).
arg(a21).
arg(a34).
arg(a5).
arg(a13).
arg(a108).
arg(a95).
arg(a93).
arg(a125).
arg(a113).
arg(a124).
arg(a86).
arg(a12).
arg(a47).
arg(a117).
arg(a123).
arg(a14).
arg(a22).
arg(a119).
arg(a118).
arg(a90).
arg(a28).
arg(a18).
arg(a77).
arg(a25).
arg(a129).
arg(a32).
arg(a94).
arg(a62).
arg(a127).
arg(a89).
arg(a40).
arg(a109).
arg(a36).
arg(a128).
arg(a103).
arg(a60).
arg(a120).
arg(a70).
arg(a44).
arg(a17).
arg(a76).
arg(a1).
arg(a51).
arg(a112).
arg(a52).
arg(a87).
arg(a58).
arg(a41).
arg(a72).
arg(a11).
arg(a64).
arg(a10).
arg(a27).
arg(a20).
arg(a49).
arg(a37).
arg(a61).
arg(a102).
arg(a4).
arg(a75).
arg(a2).
arg(a45).
arg(a121).
arg(a63).
arg(a106).
arg(a115).
arg(a54).
arg(a39).
arg(a8).
arg(a78).
arg(a83).
arg(a107).
arg(a116).
arg(a16).
arg(a92).
arg(a79).
arg(a100).
arg(a97).
arg(a80).
arg(a69).
arg(a105).
arg(a99).
arg(a7).
arg(a26).
arg(a6).
arg(a9).
arg(a23).
arg(a96).
arg(a3).
arg(a68).
arg(a46).
arg(a111).
arg(a104).
arg(a35).
arg(a15).
arg(a50).
arg(a56).
arg(a101).
arg(a122).
arg(a30).
arg(a43).
arg(a88).
arg(a74).
sup(a71, a89).
att(a29, a96).
sup(a85, a22).
sup(a57, a33).
sup(a67, a60).
sup(a91, a38).
att(a84, a44).
att(a53, a95).
att(a53, a124).
att(a53, a64).
sup(a53, a14).
sup(a53, a130).
sup(a55, a67).
att(a73, a128).
sup(a48, a27).
att(a98, a99).
att(a110, a77).
att(a82, a3).
att(a82, a129).
sup(a24, a70).
att(a33, a75).
sup(a33, a122).
att(a66, a96).
att(a5, a80).
att(a5, a87).
sup(a5, a96).
sup(a13, a58).
att(a93, a102).
att(a93, a42).
att(a113, a61).
att(a113, a119).
sup(a86, a80).
att(a47, a3).
sup(a117, a89).
att(a123, a9).
att(a118, a34).
sup(a90, a33).
att(a28, a62).
sup(a18, a78).
att(a77, a23).
att(a77, a76).
att(a77, a37).
att(a77, a88).
sup(a25, a46).
att(a129, a102).
att(a129, a41).
att(a129, a83).
sup(a129, a13).
att(a94, a126).
att(a94, a95).
att(a127, a74).
att(a89, a6).
att(a89, a33).
att(a89, a17).
att(a89, a16).
att(a40, a116).
sup(a60, a103).
sup(a60, a92).
sup(a120, a121).
sup(a120, a15).
att(a44, a23).
att(a76, a101).
sup(a1, a112).
att(a112, a81).
sup(a112, a43).
sup(a52, a11).
sup(a41, a58).
sup(a72, a120).
att(a64, a13).
att(a64, a83).
att(a64, a8).
att(a64, a31).
sup(a10, a125).
sup(a49, a27).
sup(a49, a87).
att(a37, a74).
sup(a4, a79).
att(a2, a107).
att(a2, a35).
att(a2, a31).
sup(a45, a19).
sup(a45, a90).
sup(a121, a21).
sup(a63, a12).
sup(a63, a51).
sup(a63, a114).
att(a106, a88).
att(a115, a43).
att(a54, a50).
att(a39, a96).
att(a78, a116).
att(a92, a77).
att(a92, a44).
sup(a92, a127).
sup(a79, a33).
att(a100, a120).
sup(a97, a49).
att(a105, a106).
sup(a105, a37).
sup(a7, a103).
sup(a26, a59).
sup(a26, a68).
att(a23, a71).
sup(a96, a75).
att(a3, a95).
att(a3, a14).
att(a3, a31).
att(a3, a109).
sup(a111, a54).
sup(a104, a81).
sup(a104, a59).
sup(a104, a69).
sup(a15, a108).
att(a50, a20).
att(a56, a58).
sup(a30, a58).
sup(a43, a57).
