% argument 1 corresponds to the sentence We must never make a concession to them without getting a concession in return . As President Eisenhower has said , the United States wants disarmament . We are willing to make all kinds of proposals for disarmament , but we are never going to disarm unless we are sure that the Soviet Union is also disarming at the same time through inspection , because if we did we would not be serving the cause of disarmament or of peace .
% argument 2 corresponds to the sentence Now , let 's turn to disarmament a moment . People say ,  Now , why is it we ca n't get some imaginative disarmament proposals , or suspension of nuclear test proposals ? Are n't we being too rigid ?  And I can only say I have seen these proposals over the years , and the United States could not have been more tolerant . We have not only gone an extra mile - we have gone an extra 5 miles - on the tests , on disarmament , but on everything else , but every time we come to a blocking point , the blocking point is no inspection , no inspection .
% argument 3 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] I do not believe that a political party which in the last 25 years has opposed housing and , minimum wage and social security and every great domestic program which has been identified with progress in this country , which has refused to recognize our changing times around the world , which liquidated the credit which Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman built up in Latin America , which has shown itself wholly uninformed of the present revolution now taking place in Africa , which has failed to maintain our military strength , which has given almost no attention to the important subject of disarmament , having less than 100 people working on it in the entire Federal Government , which has permitted us to be second , best in outer space , which has brought less foreign students to study here today than 10 years ago , which has , in other words , presided over the United States in a changing time and refused to change - I believe on November 8 the people of this country are going to take progress for the future , are going to give the leadership of this country once more to the Democrats . [ Applause .
% argument 4 corresponds to the sentence The next President must promptly send to the Congress a special message requesting the funds and the authority necessary to give us a nuclear capacity second to none , making us invulnerable to any attack , and have conventional forces so strong and so mobile that they can stamp out a brush fire war before it spreads . Only then can we get Mr. Khrushchev and the Chinese Communists to talk about disarmament , because having the second best defensive hand in the 1960 's will be like having the second best poker hand . [ Applause .
% argument 5 corresponds to the sentence Yet , in the past 80 years , this problem has been virtually ignored ; we have had no real disarmament policy . And we have completely failed to provide the effort and the leadership which the pursuit of disarmament demands . In the entire U.S. Government we have had fewer than 100 men working on the complex problems of arms control .
% argument 6 corresponds to the sentence I want to explain that in terms of examples today because it seems to me there has been a great lack of understanding in recent months , and , for that matter in recent years , as to why the United States has followed the line that it has diplomatically . People have often spoken to me and they have said ,  Why ca n't we be more flexible in our dealings on disarmament ? Why ca n't we find a bold new program in this area which will make it possible for the Soviet Union to agree ?  And the answer is , of course , that the United States has gone the extra mile in disarmament time and time again . The answer is that the reason the Soviet Union has not agreed is that they do not want apparently to disarm unless we give up the right to inspection .
% argument 7 corresponds to the sentence Now , what do I mean by that ? I mean simply that the next President should follow the course that President Eisenhower has begun , follow the course of being willing to go anyplace , anyplace in the world , in the cause of peace . Follow the course of being willing to negotiate from a position of strength with firmness , standing always for freedom , but be willing to negotiate on disarmament , on Berlin , on any of the other major differences that we have , trying to work those differences out so that we reduce the areas that might set off this disaster that all of us wish to avoid . And might I say that in this particular field we have to recognize that these next years provide an opportunity to strengthen the instrumentalities that will work for peace .
% argument 8 corresponds to the sentence I know that you must never make a concession to him without getting one in return . I know that you must never agree to disarmament , for example , unless you have an ironclad agreement from him that he 's going to do likewise . I know that that kind of firmness is what leads to peace .
% argument 9 corresponds to the sentence I think that we have many arms in the arsenal , and one of course is that , and we should keep that second to none . Secondly , I hope that we can try to work out with our adversaries , the Communists , a realistic system with inspection for the lessening of arms tension , for the cessation of nuclear tests and for the beginning of disarmament , and lift that heavy burden from us all . Thirdly , I think that we should assist those countries to the south of us who are attempting to solve their staggering economic problems and help them join with us .
% argument 10 corresponds to the sentence A recent independent survey concludes , and I quote it accurately ,  The only continuous features of our efforts in the disarmament field have been a lack of continuity in top personnel and a paucity of planning and research effort .  As a result , we have been unprepared at every disarmament conference that we have attended . At a time when our relative military strength was at its height , in the mid fifties , at a time when we had the best chance to reach an agreement on control of arms , there was not a single top person in the entire Government working on this subject .
% argument 11 corresponds to the sentence In a message to Congress on January 7 , 1941 , President Roosevelt translated freedom from fear to mean  a worldwide reduction of armaments to such a point and in such a thorough fashion that no nation will be in a position to commit an act of physical aggression against any neighbor anywhere in the world .  In short , freedom from fear was freedom from war - the pursuit of that freedom was the pursuit of peace - the method of achieving that freedom was the method of disarmament . Today , 20 years later , we are still far from Franklin Roosevelt 's goal .
% argument 12 corresponds to the sentence But in the two areas , two areas where peace can he won in the field of disarmament and in our representations abroad this country has been ill served . Disarmament planning is the most glaring omission in the field of national security and world peace of the last 8 years . [ Applause .
% argument 13 corresponds to the sentence  It is impossible for us to provide for the disarmament of outer space , the disarmament of nuclear weapons , unless we are in a position of parity with the Soviet Union . This administration has less than 100 people working in the entire Federal Government on the subject of disarmament . I think we can do a better job than that .
% argument 14 corresponds to the sentence Yet in the past 8 years , and in my opinion this is one of the most serious indictments that can be leveled against this administration , in this vital area in the past 8 years this administration has given this problem no attention . In the entire U.S. Government we have had fewer than 100 people working on the complex subject of arms control and disarmament , less than 100 people , scattered through four or five agencies of the Government . When I reminded Mr. Nixon of this in one of the debates he gave one of his usual answers .
% argument 15 corresponds to the sentence And if we let the nations of Africa and Asia and Latin America feel that the United States is the real obstacle to disarmament , that we are not sincere in our desire for peace - if we continue to let the Soviet Union seize the offensive in disarmament negotiations - then these emerging areas of the world may well turn away from America and the free world , and begin to look to the Communist bloc for leadership in the fight for peace . And , of course , we must also seek disarmament because the only alternative to pursuit of an effective disarmament agreement is the pursuit of our present course - the arms race , the gap , new weapons , the development of even higher orders of mutual terror resulting in the ever higher likelihood of mutual destruction . But we will not move toward disarmament and a secure peace , we will not be any closer to freedom from fear , if we simply follow Mr. Nixon 's plan for meetings , more conferences , more study groups and discussions .
% argument 16 corresponds to the sentence This administration , a year ago , in order to get a position on disarmament , appointed a lawyer from my own State of Massachusetts , Mr. Coolidge , who had had no previous experience in the field . After 3 months , his report was dismissed and so was he , and a New York lawyer , after 5 weeks of preparation , was sent to head up our mission to the Disarmament Conference . One hundred people working on one of the most important , involved , specialized fields the subject of disarmament , nuclear control .
% argument 17 corresponds to the sentence That is why , my friends , that is why the President of the United States has been correct in being firm in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev and not belligerent . That is why he has insisted that while he will always go an extra mile to negotiate disarmament or reduction of tensions , that he will never agree to weaken the United States unless we are sure that the Soviet Union is also reducing its military power at the same time . [ Applause .
% argument 18 corresponds to the sentence The catastrophic arms race , more costly than all of our budget put together , more costly than all the other things which we pay for , can not be eliminated merely by wishful thinking . But is n't it a somber fact that this administration has had less than 100 people working in the entire National Government on the subject of disarmament One-fifth as many as work for the U.S. Battle Monuments Commission are working on disarmament in this administration - 100 people scattered throughout the international government . And we can not avoid the menace of a Communist base on Cuba , only 90 miles from our shores , merely by wishing it had not happened , though I wish it had not .
% argument 19 corresponds to the sentence I believe that this country can do more for peace than it has done . I am not satisfied to have only 100 experts scattered through the U.S. Government working on the sensitive and complex issue of disarmament . I regret that our negotiators at previous disarmament conferences too often have been ill prepared , ill advised , and ill staffed .
% argument 20 corresponds to the sentence People have often spoken to me - my friends who are Quakers , as I am , have written to me - and they have said ,  Mr . Nixon , why does n't the United States show a more flexible attitude ? Why do n't we take the first step toward disarmament ?  Let me tell you what we have done . We have not only taken one step ; we have not only taken two steps , but we have gone the second mile , the third mile , way down the line on disarmament .
% argument 21 corresponds to the sentence In short , no problem is more vital or more urgent in the struggle for peace than the problem of effective arms control . Yet , in the past 80 years , this problem has been virtually ignored ; we have had no real disarmament policy . And we have completely failed to provide the effort and the leadership which the pursuit of disarmament demands .
% argument 22 corresponds to the sentence It is n't as spectacular as President Eisenhower has done to go before the U.N. and to lay it on the line for controlled disarmament - not phony disarmament - not where you simply have empty pledges , but a case where both sides will disarm . Because remember this : If we ever have disarmament where we disarm and the other side does n't , that means that we increase the risk of war rather than reduce it , and we 're not going to do that and we can be sure of that . [ Applause .
% argument 23 corresponds to the sentence I see him , ruthless , tough , completely a man dedicated to one purpose only - the evil purpose of conquering the world , and this is what I know . If America ever makes the mistake of entering into a disarmament agreement , which he does not also keep with inspection , it will increase the danger of war rather than reduce it , and I 'll tell you why : We can not leave to a man who is the enemy of peace power to start a war and destroy the world . We have to have the power because we are friends of peace .
% argument 24 corresponds to the sentence We did not come up with a single major new proposal in the field of arms control , and we cared so little about it that we regarded the entire effort as merely a part of our effort in psychological warfare . At the London Conference of 1957 , the first important disarmament Conference held in the fifties , and the one which came closest of any in reaching an agreement on disarmament , we sent a man who had not been active in the field , Harold Stassen , we sent him to a meeting without formulating an American position . Mr. Stassen was never able to get clear instructions at the meeting as to what our position was .
% argument 25 corresponds to the sentence In September the administration appointed a Boston lawyer , Charles Coolidge , to prepare an American position . Mr. Coolidge had barely finished his studies when he was replaced by another man - this time a New York lawyer without any experience in disarmament . We had no position ready when the conference started .
% argument 26 corresponds to the sentence Second , peace requires an America that is planning and preparing and striving for disarmament . Under this administration , less than 100 people have been working in the entire Federal Government on the vital subject of disarmament , a subject deeply complicated and in some ways requiring more modern scientific experiments than the preparation of instruments of war . After all these years , the present administration is now talking of establishing a special arms control agency in the executive branch .
% argument 27 corresponds to the sentence They are afraid of diplomatic policies that teeter on the brink of war . They are dismayed that our negotiators have no solid plans for disarmament . And they are discouraged by a philosophy that puts its faith in swapping threats and insults with the Russians .
% argument 28 corresponds to the sentence Fifth - And most important , the fight for disarmament must command the personal attention and concern of the President of the United States . Our defense and six disarmament experts are concentrated in many important agencies of Government - in the State Department , the Defense Department , the AEC and others . Only the President can overcome the frictions and differences between those agencies ; only he can weld all the parts of the Executive into a singleness of purpose in the pursuit of peace , and only the President can make the hard decisions , decisions involving peace or war , destruction or survival , which peace programs as well as war programs will surely bring .
% argument 29 corresponds to the sentence But the hard facts of the matter are that we have fewer than 100 people in the entire Federal Government working on these problems . And the result has been that this country has not been prepared for any disarmament , arms control or atomic testing conference that has taken place since the end of the Korean war . I have proposed in the Congress the establishment of a National Peace Agency - an Arms Control Research Institute - and the next President of the United States must take this step to pave the way for peace .
% argument 30 corresponds to the sentence And the reason that we insist that disarmament must not be just a fine slogan but that it must be honest and that there must be an agreement which will see that both sides keep it is not because we do not want disarmament but because we do want disarmament . We want the fact of disarmament rather than the fiction of it which is what the Soviets up to this time have been offering , since they have not offered inspection along with it . [ Applause .
% argument 31 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Second , peace requires an America that is planning and preparing and striving for disarmament . Under this administration , less than 100 people have been working in the entire Federal Government on the vital subject of disarmament , a subject deeply complicated and in some ways requiring more modern scientific experiments than the preparation of instruments of war .
% argument 32 corresponds to the sentence If we ever have disarmament in this world , disarmament without inspection , in which the strength of the Soviet Union relative to that of the United States is increased , the risk of war increases . In other words , disarmament without inspection increases the risk of war . It 's only disarmament with inspection that will reduce the risk of war .
% argument 33 corresponds to the sentence Her diplomacy must be wise . We must always go the extra mile working for peace , for disarmament , but , above everything else , we must recognize our purpose , our mission in the world . I say this particularly , because this is a college town .
% argument 34 corresponds to the sentence We hurt it , because - why is America the guardian of peace today ? Because we 're the strongest nation in the world , and the difference is : We do n't want to use our strength for anything except to keep the peace . We do n't want anything from anybody else , but remember this : The moment the men in the Kremlin ever have more strength than we have , the moment we ever enter into a disarmament agreement , which would not have ironclad inspection , in which they would gain strength against us , we find that the enemies of peace then , the men in the Kremlin , are in a position where they can do what they want , and that is : They would use their strength to start war . They would use it because their aim is to conquer the world .
% argument 35 corresponds to the sentence And , of course , we must also seek disarmament because the only alternative to pursuit of an effective disarmament agreement is the pursuit of our present course - the arms race , the gap , new weapons , the development of even higher orders of mutual terror resulting in the ever higher likelihood of mutual destruction . But we will not move toward disarmament and a secure peace , we will not be any closer to freedom from fear , if we simply follow Mr. Nixon 's plan for meetings , more conferences , more study groups and discussions . For peace takes more than words .
% argument 36 corresponds to the sentence This is an issue which involves the lives of all of us , and I must say in this area as in so many others this Government has been under the control of those who have been uninterested , who have lacked intellectual curiosity , who have failed to realize that in these changing times we need the best talent we can get , constantly applied to all the new problems that disturb us . Disarmament is only one failure of the last 8 years . [ Applause .
% argument 37 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Secondly , we must establish an arms control research institute , working full time under the direction of the President , and their function will be to conduct the research and make the studies on which our position will be based at future conferences which must be held in the sixties , on the important subject of disarmament and on the important subject of nuclear test control , a full time institute manned by men whose mission is peace just as we maintain the Pentagon , whose mission is war . We must also give the same attention , certainly as much , and if possible more attention , to the involved and important subject of peace .
% argument 38 corresponds to the sentence And by that time our chief negotiator had been repudiated by the administration , and publicly demoted from the White House staff . At the next important disarmament conference , the 1958 Geneva Conference on surprise attack , we were represented by a businessman who had been out of Government for 5 years , and who had assumed his duties only 5 weeks before the conference met . Almost up to the opening day of the meeting , we had prepared no position , conducted no special research , formulated no realistic or constructive proposals .
% argument 39 corresponds to the sentence Fourth , while we are working to dismantle the engines of destruction we must work out methods of protecting ourselves against the growing danger of accidental war , through sure methods of informing ourselves about suspicious events or accidental firings so that neither nation can make a mistake which will trigger nuclear destruction . Fifth - And most important , the fight for disarmament must command the personal attention and concern of the President of the United States . Our defense and six disarmament experts are concentrated in many important agencies of Government - in the State Department , the Defense Department , the AEC and others .
% argument 40 corresponds to the sentence But , in addition to that , we will follow the firm , strong line and diplomacy which President Eisenhower has followed . What do I mean by that ? I mean that we will always be willing to go the extra mile , as he has been willing to go , to negotiate for disarmament , to negotiate for reducing tensions , but we will always recognize that in dealing with the Communist dictators or any dictators , that giving them an inch does n't mean that they will take a mile . They will take the whole world .
% argument 41 corresponds to the sentence We do n't want that . Mr. Khrushchev gets before the United Nations and he tries to gain the initiative by coming out for another phony disarmament plan . Do we want that from our President ? No. Our President goes before the United Nations .
% argument 42 corresponds to the sentence And this administration has failed to recognize the decisive nature of what science is doing to our hopes for the future . This administration has had less than 100 people working in the entire national administration on the subject of disarmament . We have gone into every conference unprepared .
% argument 43 corresponds to the sentence For the hopes of all mankind rest on successful disarmament . And if we let the nations of Africa and Asia and Latin America feel that the United States is the real obstacle to disarmament , that we are not sincere in our desire for peace - if we continue to let the Soviet Union seize the offensive in disarmament negotiations - then these emerging areas of the world may well turn away from America and the free world , and begin to look to the Communist bloc for leadership in the fight for peace . And , of course , we must also seek disarmament because the only alternative to pursuit of an effective disarmament agreement is the pursuit of our present course - the arms race , the gap , new weapons , the development of even higher orders of mutual terror resulting in the ever higher likelihood of mutual destruction .
% argument 44 corresponds to the sentence The struggle for disarmament will not be an easy one . For disarmament is an ideal just as peace itself is an ideal , but it was a great son of Wisconsin , Carl Schurz , who said : Ideals are like stars ; you will not succeed in touching them with your hands . But , like the seafaring man on the desert of waters , you choose them as your guides , and following them you will reach your destiny .
% argument 45 corresponds to the sentence And we cared so little about arms control , that we regarded the entire effort as just another branch of psychological warfare , restricting ourselves to propaganda while Soviet armed strength increased . At the London Conference of 1957 - the first important disarmament meeting , we were represented by a man with absolutely no experience in arms control , Harold Stassen , and we sent him to the meeting without having formulated any American position . It was not until August 29 , 1957 , more than 5 months after the conference opened , that America had any position at all .
% argument 46 corresponds to the sentence We can be proud that we are working through the United Nations to maintain the freedom of these people rather than to take it away . It 's true that President Eisenhower is n't making a fool of himself on the floor of the U.N. It 's true that he is advocating a program for disarmament , for the use of outer space , a program in addition , for the use of our surpluses through the United Nations . All of these are honest , decent proposals , which the whole world applauds .
% argument 47 corresponds to the sentence But at the present time there is still a chance that the negotiations can result in an agreement in which testing will be discontinued by both the Soviet Union and the United States , or at least not resumed by both , assuming both have discontinued them , and that this agreement will have with it inspection procedures . Now the reason that it is vitally important that we continue to press forward until there is obviously no chance of success is that if we can get an agreement on nuclear testing , suspension of nuclear testing , with inspection , it opens the door and paves the way for disarmament with inspection . And this must be the goal of the President of the United States , whatever party he may be from .
% argument 48 corresponds to the sentence We have not only taken one step ; we have not only taken two steps , but we have gone the second mile , the third mile , way down the line on disarmament . The point is : the Soviet Union is blocking the road to disarmament , blocking the road to stopping tests . Why ? Because they want a closed society and they want no inspection .
% argument 49 corresponds to the sentence The generation for which I speak has seen enough of warmongers - let our great role in history be that of peacemakers . But the harsh facts of the matter are that in three vital areas we have been ill-staffed and ill-represented in the struggle for peace - in our disarmament planning , in our diplomatic and foreign service , and in our technical assistance to underdeveloped nations . In all three areas , we have failed to realize that times have changed since World War II .
% argument 50 corresponds to the sentence I select it because I believe it is the most important issue not only of this campaign , but of our time , of our generation , of this country . I select it because I know that the people of this State as the people of the other 49 States of the Union , want leadership which will continue to do what President Eisenhower has done , and for which the American people will be forever grateful to him , leadership that will keep the peace , keep it without surrender , leadership that will extend freedom , extend it without war , leadership which will make us proud of our Nation in the council of nations , leadership in which the President of the United States , when he goes to the United Nations , as a man of dignity , standing for disarmament , standing for progress , standing for helping the unfortunate people of the world , and gaining respect rather than making a fool out of himself as did Mr. Khrushchev when he was there at the United Nations - and I know that everybody in this audience , everybody listening to me on television and radio , recognizes that the problems are difficult , difficult not because of our choosing , difficult not because of the other peace-loving nations - and , fortunately , my friends , they are most of the nations in this world , our allies in Europe and in Asia , the so-called neutrals in Africa , and in South America , and in other countries . Certainly in this period we realize that the problems are difficult only because there is on the loose in the world a great aggressive force , a force which is fanatical which is ruthless , whose leaders do not follow the rules of international diplomacy , as we would like them to be followed , whose leaders - and I know them , and I speak from knowledge - are men who have one objective , and one only , and that is to conquer the world , conquer it without war , if they can , but willing to use any means , if that becomes necessary , and because when we have this kind of leadership , aggressive , always probing , always attempting to embarrass , always moving against us around the world , the period ahead is going to be a difficult one .
% argument 51 corresponds to the sentence Disarmament today is just as complicated as armaments - involving complex problems of surveillance , reconnaissance , seismography , atmospheric sampling and testing stations . A successful blueprint for a safe disarmament is as difficult to devise as a successful blueprint for modern war . But the hard facts of the matter are that we have fewer than 100 people in the entire Federal Government working on these problems .
% argument 52 corresponds to the sentence So , anytime we make a disarmament agreement which does not have inspection , under which they might increase their strength as against ours , it increases the risk of war . That 's why I say that we stand for peace when we say , as President Eisenhower says : Yes , we will go to Geneva and discuss disarmament and stopping tests ; yes , we will go to the summit and discuss disarmament and stopping tests . Yes , but we will never agree to an agreement unless the Soviet Union is going to require inspection as well as the United States .
% argument 53 corresponds to the sentence And all that I can say : We can be thankful that our President is n't making a fool of himself as Castro and Khrushchev have at the United Nations . We can be thankful that our President is putting out real disarmament proposals rather than phony ones , that he 's standing for the peace of the world , rather than to stir up trouble in the world , that instead of muscling into the Congo to try to take it over , he 's standing with the United Nations . I say that it 's time , with all this criticism of the President and his policies , that , in pointing out , as we should , the things that are wrong , that we recognize the things that are right about America as well .
% argument 54 corresponds to the sentence The hope for peace is to be firm against those who threaten the peace so that they ca n't blackmail us . The hope for peace is then to go out and sit down , from a position of strength , and negotiate for disarmament for peace but always from strength and never from weakness . And that 's what Cabot Lodge and I will do .
% argument 55 corresponds to the sentence I 'm confident of what America can do in the years ahead , provided that Americans know the problems , face up to the challenge , and stay true to the principles that have made this country great . Now , if I might turn to one other point that I think should be covered on an occasion like this , what should be our diplomatic policy in these years ahead ? Diplomatically , the United States , as the President indicated at Baltimore this morning , must always be ready and willing to sit down at the conference table and discuss disarmament , to discuss any differences that we have with any other nation in the world , because we must work for peace constantly ; but on the other hand , let 's remember , as the President also said this morning , when it comes to disarmament we must never forget that we can take nothing on faith , because America must never give up any of its own strength unless we know that the potential enemies of freedom and of peace are also reducing their strength at the same time . In other words , we can have disarmament only with inspection , with the guarantees which the President has insisted upon and which we will insist upon in the next administration as well .
% argument 56 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] We must be firm in our diplomacy in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev at the conference table , always willing to go an extra mile as President Eisenhower has said , working for disarmament , working for reduction of tension , but again as he has said , never reducing our arms strength until we are sure he is going to do likewise with his . This is what I mean by firm diplomacy that will serve the cause of peace , rather than harm it .
% argument 57 corresponds to the sentence They want to go Eisenhower 's way - and that 's our way , and that 's the way we 're going . Now , the last point that I make is one that I make particularly because I know of the great concern the people in these university communities have for the cause of disarmament . People have often spoken to me - my friends who are Quakers , as I am , have written to me - and they have said ,  Mr .
% argument 58 corresponds to the sentence Only then can we prevent war by preparing for it . Only then can we pave the way to disarmament by showing Mr. Khrushchev the futility of Russian armaments . But let us always remember that Mr. Khrushchev is not going to be impressed by mere words .
% argument 59 corresponds to the sentence We know what peace demands . We will always go the extra mile to strengthen peace , the extra mile to work for disarmament , the extra mile to reduce tensions , but we will always remember that the man we are dealing with and his colleagues are ruthless , fanatical aggressors and that they do not follow the rules of the game that we would like them to follow , and that we must treat them the way they are , and this means that we must never make a concession without being sure that we 're getting one in return , that we must never agree , for example , to disarmament unless we can be sure that they , too , are disarming . Why is this necessary for peace ? Because , as I said at my last stop , we 've got to remember that as long as the United States maintains its present position of being stronger than anyone who threatens the peace of the world we can be the guardians of peace ; but the moment that somebody or some nation that does not want peace - in other words , that would use war as an instrument of conquest - is stronger than we are , or thinks they are , then peace is no longer safe .
% argument 60 corresponds to the sentence But no matter how difficult the problems are , how discouraging the obstacles , how uncertain the prospect for agreement , we must , nevertheless , begin a determined , large-scale effort to prepare ourselves for disarmament - to formulate constructive and realistic proposals which have a chance of success . For the hopes of all mankind rest on successful disarmament . And if we let the nations of Africa and Asia and Latin America feel that the United States is the real obstacle to disarmament , that we are not sincere in our desire for peace - if we continue to let the Soviet Union seize the offensive in disarmament negotiations - then these emerging areas of the world may well turn away from America and the free world , and begin to look to the Communist bloc for leadership in the fight for peace .
% argument 61 corresponds to the sentence They would use it because their aim is to conquer the world . So , my friends , let me say this : We will work for disarmament , yes . We will work to stop tests and get an agreement , yes ; but we will never agree to anything unless we are sure they are going to keep the bargain because that 's how America has got into trouble in the past , and we are not going to make that mistake in the future .
% argument 62 corresponds to the sentence He 's been working through the United Nations , trying to save independence and freedom for that country and all others . He has n't put up a phony disarmament scheme , but he 's been working for atoms for peace and for real disarmament . He has stood for great moral leadership in the world , and this has been good for America , and it has meant that our prestige , rather than being at an alltime low , as people have suggested , is high today , and in the United Nations it 's particularly high , and if we have any doubts about it , look at that vote on the Congo a few days ago .
% argument 63 corresponds to the sentence It involves the lives and security of us all . I believe that we should set up an arms research institute - a peace institute - in the National Government , which will work as hard on the subject of disarmament , work as hard on the subject of peace , as our Defense Establishment does to protect us . We need to be strong , but we also need to be working toward peace .
% argument 64 corresponds to the sentence Halt the arms race .  Let me tell you about disarmament . When people say ,  I 'm for disarmament ,  and when some people write to me and say  Why , when Mr. Khrushchev comes over and says he 's for total disarmament - why do we have to insist on inspection ? Why ,  they say ,  could n't we just do it ? Would n't that be real leadership in the world ? Would n't that be bold and imaginative ?  Yes , it would ; but do you know what would happen ? The moment the United States ever enters into an agreement for disarmament , which would result in increasing his strength as against ours , we do n't help the cause of peace .
% argument 65 corresponds to the sentence Well , it is , Jackie , of course , the great problem . And I really do n't think that we 've made enough progress , for example , in the area of disarmament in the last years . We 've only had about 100 people working in the entire Federal Government on the subject of disarmament , the subject of nuclear testing .
% argument 66 corresponds to the sentence We must also be ready to reassume the initiative in the conduct of our foreign affairs - or act to spread freedom as well as to react against the spread of communism . We must propose new and workable programs for disarmament , for banning nuclear testing , for reducing tensions in the many trouble spots around the world from Berlin to the Formosa Straits . For only an America which is applying its full resources of imagination and thought and strength to the resolution of the world 's great problems - only such an America will be able to maintain its position as the champion of peace and the protector of freedom everywhere .
% argument 67 corresponds to the sentence Do we want that from our President ? No. Our President goes before the United Nations . He comes out with an honest program of disarmament . Not one which is naive , because , as the President says , America must never disarm unless we have guarantees that the Khrushchevs and the others will also reduce their armaments at the same time .
% argument 68 corresponds to the sentence He prepared a report . The report was thrown aside , and this time a New York lawyer without any experience in the field of disarmament became head of our mission . We had no position and we adopted that of the British .
% argument 69 corresponds to the sentence It 's a typically specious and frivolous maneuver . We have made a good-faith effort to advance the - advance toward disarmament - and make some progress by having a meeting of the Disarmament Commission . Now , when they make a proposal like this , it 's a cynical attempt to prevent progress , that 's what it is it shows that they do n't really want disarmament .
% argument 70 corresponds to the sentence The negotiations on nuclear testing are as far apart as they ever were . The talks on disarmament have been called off . And , finally , instead of the hoped-for general relaxation of world tension , the Soviets have stepped up the tempo of disorder , division and danger .
% argument 71 corresponds to the sentence Well , let me say that in the first place I think his purpose in coming here could be manifold . First , he may have some new proposals on disarmament which he hopes to capture the attention of the world with . Second I think he thinks that the General Assembly of the United Nations is going to be increasingly influential and powerful .
% argument 72 corresponds to the sentence I would put more people into it . I would indicate our desire not only to maintain our strength , but also to provide for orderly disarmament . Thirdly , I would hope that the United States could make for effective judgments of the events that are going to occur .
% argument 73 corresponds to the sentence We have never adopted a comprehensive and meaningful position , and we have too often resorted instead to irresponsible grandstand plays . I have proposed a national peace agency , an arms control research institute , to prepare those studies necessary for a firm and precise policy , to make certain our spokesmen are better prepared and better staffed at future conferences , to enable us to seize the disarmament initiative . For I know we can do better .
% argument 74 corresponds to the sentence  Our chief negotiator . This administration is liable on the whole series of grounds , Latin America , Africa , Asia , outer space , and here in the field of disarmament , which involves the security and peace of every person in and out of the State of Wisconsin , the head of our mission should say ,  We have given it very little time and attention .  [ Applause .
% argument 75 corresponds to the sentence The negotiations on nuclear testing are as far apart as ever . The talks on disarmament have been called off . And , finally , instead of the hoped-for general relaxation of world tension , the Soviets have stepped up their efforts to create disorder , danger and division .
% argument 76 corresponds to the sentence We want a peace in which the world is not teetering constantly on the brink of war . We want a peace in which the funds now poured into the destructive forces of armaments may be channeled into the constructive results of disarmament - into great multi-Nation efforts to eradicate disease , harness rivers , eliminate illiteracy , and exploit the frontiers of space . We want a peace in which we can truly beat our swords into plowshares , our bombs into reactors , and our rockets into vehicles for exploring outer space .
% argument 77 corresponds to the sentence We have shown very little interest in their health , welfare , and economic problems . Third , I think the United States should put greater emphasis on disarmament . Fourth , I think it has been the greatest blow we have had in the 1950 's or since World War II , when the United States was second in space .
% argument 78 corresponds to the sentence Now , if I might turn to one other point that I think should be covered on an occasion like this , what should be our diplomatic policy in these years ahead ? Diplomatically , the United States , as the President indicated at Baltimore this morning , must always be ready and willing to sit down at the conference table and discuss disarmament , to discuss any differences that we have with any other nation in the world , because we must work for peace constantly ; but on the other hand , let 's remember , as the President also said this morning , when it comes to disarmament we must never forget that we can take nothing on faith , because America must never give up any of its own strength unless we know that the potential enemies of freedom and of peace are also reducing their strength at the same time . In other words , we can have disarmament only with inspection , with the guarantees which the President has insisted upon and which we will insist upon in the next administration as well . And in the negotiations that we have , as far as these guidelines are concerned , may I suggest these other things should be remembered as well ; we must be firm in our dealings with the Soviet , as I have indicated , but we must be nonbelligerent .
% argument 79 corresponds to the sentence Why is it that you stand against the proposals for disarmament that are made by Mr. Khrushchev ? Why is it that we ca n't go more than halfway on these proposals and take some of them on faith ?  I want to tell you why we ca n't . Because if the United States ever enters into a disarmament agreement with the Soviet or with any other potential aggressor which they might break and which we would keep , that would increase the danger of war rather than reduce it and that we must never do . [ Applause .
% argument 80 corresponds to the sentence A recent independent survey concluded : The only continuous features of our efforts in the disarmament field have been a lack of continuity in top personnel and a paucity of planning and research efforts . As a result of this failure we have been steadily unprepared on disarmament . Our delegates to international conferences have been inexperienced , understaffed , and inadequately instructed .
% argument 81 corresponds to the sentence Nixon , why does n't the United States show a more flexible attitude ? Why do n't we take the first step toward disarmament ?  Let me tell you what we have done . We have not only taken one step ; we have not only taken two steps , but we have gone the second mile , the third mile , way down the line on disarmament . The point is : the Soviet Union is blocking the road to disarmament , blocking the road to stopping tests .
% argument 82 corresponds to the sentence The peace requires that we have these adequate defenses - I know this Nation can afford them - and you know this Nation can not afford to be without them . Secondly , peace requires an America that is planning , preparing , and striving for disarmament and other steps toward peace . Disarmament today is just as complicated as armaments - involving complex problems of surveillance , reconnaissance , seismography , atmospheric sampling and testing stations .
% argument 83 corresponds to the sentence Let me just make this one point . We will always go the extra mile to negotiate , We will always make over every proposal and take every initiative , as President Eisenhower did , on disarmament , on open skies , on the use of outer space for peaceful purposes in his U.N. speech . But , on the other hand , if we really want peace , my friends , the way to destroy our hopes is for the United States ever to agree to disarm when the Russians are n't also doing it .
% argument 84 corresponds to the sentence Our chief negotiator admitted at the 1958 conference on preventing surprise attacks that we , and I quote him ,  had n't up to this time really given the intense study of the kind of measure which would make this kind of measure possible ,  had not even intense study to the very program that they were then putting forward . A year ago when we went to the disarmament conference , we appointed an attorney from Massachusetts to set up an ad hoc committee . That committee met for 3 months .
% argument 85 corresponds to the sentence We have gone into every conference unprepared . This administration , a year ago , in order to get a position on disarmament , appointed a lawyer from my own State of Massachusetts , Mr. Coolidge , who had had no previous experience in the field . After 3 months , his report was dismissed and so was he , and a New York lawyer , after 5 weeks of preparation , was sent to head up our mission to the Disarmament Conference .
% argument 86 corresponds to the sentence Perhaps they will not agree to the effective system of inspection and control which is vital to agreement . Perhaps the Communist Chinese will refuse to participate in arms control negotiation , even though their ultimate participation is essential to effective disarmament . Perhaps the science of inspection will be unable to keep pace with advancing weapons technology .
% argument 87 corresponds to the sentence If we have the ability to meet the problem of an abundance of food , in an imaginative way , that helps people of the world to realize the blessings the Lord has given them , then we assist ourselves and assist others . If we recognize that we do not have much time , that the nuclear capacity is traveling country after country , almost like a disease , until by the end of the next decade 15 , 20 , or 25 countries will have the power to destroy not merely their adversaries , but perhaps human life , and yet this a Administration has less than 100 people working in the entire Federal Government on the vital subject of disarmament and our negotiators have reflected that disinterest . [ Applause .
% argument 88 corresponds to the sentence And I say that we can not and should not blame ourselves , our policies , our negotiators , their scientific advisers , or their instructions , for the unyielding refusal of the Soviets to make an agreement at Geneva . The time and patience which we have already expended to explore this way out of the disarmament dilemma have been full proof of our own intentions and those of the Soviets . The blame rests squarely on them .
% argument 89 corresponds to the sentence We have made a good-faith effort to advance the - advance toward disarmament - and make some progress by having a meeting of the Disarmament Commission . Now , when they make a proposal like this , it 's a cynical attempt to prevent progress , that 's what it is it shows that they do n't really want disarmament . Q. Can you estimate how long your disarmament duties will keep you under this self-imposed noncampaigning status ? A. Well , it is n't really self-imposed .
% argument 90 corresponds to the sentence The pursuit of peace is still the focus of our leadership , our energies , and our determination . And disarmament is still the most vital step on the road to a lasting peace . The great question of the 1960 's - the overriding concern of all Americans and all men - is whether , in the coming decade , the world will move toward a secure peace and the survival of mankind or whether we will move toward war and common destruction .
% argument 91 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] President Eisenhower is n't setting up a phony disarmament scheme as Khrushchev is . All those things make news .
% argument 92 corresponds to the sentence And what has the United States been doing in the same year ? We have frustrated congressional attempts to develop more missiles , to harden our missile bases , to increase our defenses against Russia 's powerful submarine fleet . We have failed to propose a consistent , comprehensive , and workable plan for disarmament , based on careful preparation and technical studies . And we have been repeatedly reassured by Mr. Nixon - in glowing , sugar-coated terms - that we have nothing to worry about in arms , science , or space - that we have achieved peace without surrender - that statistics showing the Russian economy expanding faster than ours can be dismissed as mere  growthmanship  - and that the anti-American riots in Latin America and Japan were actually indications that the Communists were afraid to face us .
% argument 93 corresponds to the sentence In other words , disarmament without inspection increases the risk of war . It 's only disarmament with inspection that will reduce the risk of war . So , I pledge to you that , with my colleague , Cabot Lodge , to whom I am going to give special assignments in this field , we will take the initiative at every opportunity to deal with Mr. Khrushchev and to work out whatever arrangement we can that will provide inspection for disarmament , for tests , for all these other items which I am discussing tonight .
% argument 94 corresponds to the sentence Now , when they make a proposal like this , it 's a cynical attempt to prevent progress , that 's what it is it shows that they do n't really want disarmament . Q. Can you estimate how long your disarmament duties will keep you under this self-imposed noncampaigning status ? A. Well , it is n't really self-imposed . It is - would obviously be inappropriate for me to , as the U.S. representative to the United Nations - to engage in partisan politics .
% argument 95 corresponds to the sentence After 3 months , his report was dismissed and so was he , and a New York lawyer , after 5 weeks of preparation , was sent to head up our mission to the Disarmament Conference . One hundred people working on one of the most important , involved , specialized fields the subject of disarmament , nuclear control . I believe we can do better , and I believe we must do better .
% argument 96 corresponds to the sentence We will always work for peace . We will take the initiative on disarmament and every other field , but we will never make a concession . We will never reduce America 's strength without getting a reduction in strength on his part , as well .
% argument 97 corresponds to the sentence People say ,  Now , why is it we ca n't get some imaginative disarmament proposals , or suspension of nuclear test proposals ? Are n't we being too rigid ?  And I can only say I have seen these proposals over the years , and the United States could not have been more tolerant . We have not only gone an extra mile - we have gone an extra 5 miles - on the tests , on disarmament , but on everything else , but every time we come to a blocking point , the blocking point is no inspection , no inspection . And so , again people say ,  Now , just a minute .
% argument 98 corresponds to the sentence We can not parley on the basis of equality with the Soviet unless we maintain a military position of equality with them , and that goes in the traditional weapons and in missiles and in outer space . One of the reasons why we have never been able to get an agreement on the disarmament of outer space is because we are second in outer space , and the Soviet Union will not give way their advantage . We arm to parley , and we must be strong if we are going to disarm and maintain our security .
% argument 99 corresponds to the sentence And what has the United States been doing in the same 12 months ? We have frustrated congressional attempts to build more missiles , to harden our missile bases , to increase our powerful submarine fleet . We have failed to propose a consistent , comprehensive and workable plan for disarmament that would gain the support , at least , of the free world , based on careful preparation and technical studies . And we have been repeatedly reassured by Mr. Nixon - in glowing , sugar-coated terms that we have nothing to worry about in arms , science and space - that we have achieved peace without surrender - that statistics which show that the Russian economy is expanding faster than ours are dismissed as  growthmanship  - and that anti-American riots in Latin America and Japan were actually indications that the Communists were afraid to face us .
% argument 100 corresponds to the sentence Our aspiration is for peace , not merely a peace which lasts between wars , not merely a peace which hangs on the brink of war , not merely a peace of the death , but a peace enforced and controlled by the United Nations against the universal danger of common destruction . We want a peace in which the funds now poured into the destructive implements of war may be channeled into the constructive results of disarmament , in a great multinational effort to harness our rivers , eradicate disease , take care of our children , care for the aged . We want a peace in which we can truly beat our swords into plowshares , and our hydrogen bombs into atomic reactors .
% argument 101 corresponds to the sentence  It is only when we have a military force strong enough to convince the Russians that they 'll never be able to gain any advantage through military strength , only when we can approach the conference table in a position of equality , only then can we hope for fruitful negotiation . Second , we must establish an arms control research institute , under the direction of the President , to undertake , coordinate , and follow through on the research , development , and policy planning needed for a workable disarmament program . Detection and monitoring systems will require new techniques of aerial reconnaissance and radar surveillance , new uses for our communications systems , computers , and cameras , new ways to denature plutonium and inspect power reactors , and a whole host of additional research projects .
% argument 102 corresponds to the sentence That 's what we 've been doing and that 's what we 're going to continue to do . It is n't as spectacular as President Eisenhower has done to go before the U.N. and to lay it on the line for controlled disarmament - not phony disarmament - not where you simply have empty pledges , but a case where both sides will disarm . Because remember this : If we ever have disarmament where we disarm and the other side does n't , that means that we increase the risk of war rather than reduce it , and we 're not going to do that and we can be sure of that .
% argument 103 corresponds to the sentence The enemy advances now by nonmilitary methods - and military methods can not prevent that advance . Disarmament planning is one of the most glaring failures of these last 8 years . There have been a series of opportunities , conferences , and proposals by other nations including the Russians .
% argument 104 corresponds to the sentence  That 's why American strength is essential . Now , let 's turn to disarmament a moment . People say ,  Now , why is it we ca n't get some imaginative disarmament proposals , or suspension of nuclear test proposals ? Are n't we being too rigid ?  And I can only say I have seen these proposals over the years , and the United States could not have been more tolerant .
% argument 105 corresponds to the sentence I believe in this . I want disarmament , above everything else . I want peace above everything else .
% argument 106 corresponds to the sentence He does n't give you something in return for it . He gets contempt for you , and he stomps on you , and , may I say , that if I have the opportunity to lead this country , we will always go the extra miles , negotiate differences ; we will always stand for peace ; we will always work for disarmament under proper inspection , but under no circumstances , when we 're doing something which is right , and that is defending the security of this country , will I apologize for the United States of America to anybody . This gives an idea of the choice .
% argument 107 corresponds to the sentence As President Eisenhower has said , the United States wants disarmament . We are willing to make all kinds of proposals for disarmament , but we are never going to disarm unless we are sure that the Soviet Union is also disarming at the same time through inspection , because if we did we would not be serving the cause of disarmament or of peace . We would be limiting our power at a time that the only one that threatens the peace of the world would be maintaining an advantage and gaining one that he did not previously have .
% argument 108 corresponds to the sentence But I know that there is not one person in the State or Nation who would not like to see the arms race ended - the threat of war recede - and the billions now spent on weapons of destruction turned to schools and hospitals and homes and dams . And with imaginative and painstaking planning for reconversion this State would enjoy a greater boom under disarmament than it ever enjoyed in the cold war . For peace is our deepest aspiration .
% argument 109 corresponds to the sentence First , it has been suggested that it is your objective to pose as a champion of disarmament . You are said to be bringing new disarmament proposals with you . If they are at all constructive and negotiable , I hope we in this country will stand ready to consider them .
% argument 110 corresponds to the sentence Why do I emphasize this inspection ? Well , for the reasons I 'm sure you 've already guessed . If we ever have disarmament in this world , disarmament without inspection , in which the strength of the Soviet Union relative to that of the United States is increased , the risk of war increases . In other words , disarmament without inspection increases the risk of war .
% argument 111 corresponds to the sentence There is no sense having a meeting unless there is an atmosphere before the meeting which leads you to hope that there will be some success . On the issues on which we are divided with the Soviet Union , disarmament and Berlin , which are the two chief ones at the present time , there is no indication that there is a common meeting ground . Therefore , just to meet , just to sit down , just to spend an hour , unless there is some basis for hope , particularly as Khrushchev is being extremely belligerent now , I thought the President showed good judgment .
% argument 112 corresponds to the sentence We talked tough when communism began to grow in Cuba - but Cuba is a Communist satellite today . We have talked tough about the need for disarmament - but the arms race is more intense than ever . We have a magnificent record of talking tough - but we do not have a magnificent record of halting the advance of communism and strengthening the spread of freedom .
% argument 113 corresponds to the sentence We will never be belligerent . We 're always going to be willing to go the extra mile to negotiate disarmament or anything , but we 're never going to fall into the fatal error of what has got us in war in the past and that is let dictators think that we will not react . So , this is the way to peace , and I want you to know that we will have no greater obligation than to keep the peace for ourselves , for our children , and also to see to it that our children have an opportunity to grow up and have a better life even than we 've had .
% argument 114 corresponds to the sentence We must take advantage of these new technological discoveries , and we must move forward also because the Soviet is moving forward , and we must never let this gap , which presently exists between their strength and ours , a gap in our favor , be narrowed . As a matter of fact , we must increase it , increase it until the time comes when we can have real disarmament with inspection - and more about that later . In addition to this , of course , we need intelligence activities , and I want to talk very frankly about intelligence tonight , because this is a matter that has been discussed during this campaign , as you will recall , in our debates .
% argument 115 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Khrushchev has stated that he is going to make a special appeal to them . We are going to have a discussion of disarmament . But I do think that in the final analysis that the President should make a judgment as to whether he should attend the United Nations .
% argument 116 corresponds to the sentence In 1952 , during the campaign between Adlai Stevenson and Dwight Eisenhower , there was no discussion , really , of outer space , and yet this administration , when a similar opportunity was granted to it to make a significant breakthrough , to recognize the implications of the opportunity in the same way that Franklin Roosevelt had recognized it in 1941 , when this administration was informed of the significance of outer space , both militarily and scientifically , we did not respond . My judgment is that we did not respond there as we have not responded to our needs in Latin America , our needs in Africa , our needs in Asia , our needs in disarmament , our needs in arms , because this administration has not been able to attract people of intellectual vitality , curiosity , foresight , and vigor . [ Applause .
% argument 117 corresponds to the sentence I am not satisfied to have only 100 experts scattered through the U.S. Government working on the sensitive and complex issue of disarmament . I regret that our negotiators at previous disarmament conferences too often have been ill prepared , ill advised , and ill staffed . We sincerely desire to live at peace with our neighbors .
% argument 118 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon may now say he has been urging an acceleration of our defense all along - but in his August 10 press conference the President said he knew of no such different viewpoint by the Vice President , adding :  Certainly if there is , he has n't come to me about it .  What was the Security Council doing while the Nation was undergoing this experience ? Why would anyone point with pride to presiding over successive blows to our security and prestige - Indochina , Hungary , Suez , Sputnik , the riots in Venezuela , the collapse of the summit , the riots in Japan , the collapse of the Baghdad Pact , the failure of disarmament , the U-2 fiasco , and now Cuba and the Congo ? Why would anyone boast about presiding over the Security Council during the years it rejected the now accepted findings of the Gaither report , the Killian report , and the Rockefeller report - during the years it held back our missiles and frustrated our efforts in Space - during the years it failed to come up with one new idea of any importance : for  Atoms for Peace  was a slogan , the Eisenhower Middle East Doctrine was a farce , the  open skies  plan was a gesture , and the Baghdad Pact was a failure . Mr. Nixon has presided , in short , over the decline of our national security .
% argument 119 corresponds to the sentence It takes men and resources and firm leadership from the top . Above all , it takes a government which is organized for the pursuit of peace , as well as the possibility of war , a government which has a program for disarmament , as well as a program for arms . First , we must work to rebuild our rapidly deteriorating defenses .
% argument 120 corresponds to the sentence We can not do that by arguing with him - and we ca n't do that by smiling at him . The only way we can get his agreement to disarmament is by our strength of armaments , enough to stop the next war before it starts . That requires only one kind of defense policy - a policy summed up in one word - first .
% argument 121 corresponds to the sentence And you ask about prestige . What do our opponents think ? Do they think that Mr. Khrushchev gains prestige for the Communists when he takes off his shoe at the United Nations and pounds the table with it ? I say no. I say that President Eisenhower gained prestige for America when with great dignity and great responsibility , he stood for peace , for disarmament , for all the things that Americans believe in. No , my friends , the real test of prestige , if our prestige was low , I can assure you , would occur in the United Nations , and there what do we find ? In every instance where we 've had a test vote - and listen to this - in the last 7 years , with the Soviet Union on one side and the United States on the other , we have won ; and in the vote on the Congo we won , 70 to nothing . My friends , that 's a pretty good score in football .
% argument 122 corresponds to the sentence We have to have the power because we are friends of peace . As long as America is the strongest nation in the world , the world need not fear that there will be war , because we will use our strength to keep peace , and I think that all of you , including those who are as dedicated to peace as I am , will say that we want the next President of the United States always to go the extra mile , as President Eisenhower has , to negotiate with Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else for disarmament . We want to go the extra mile to strengthen the United Nations and the instruments of peace , but under no circumstances do we want the next President to be a man who will be fooled , who will make concessions to them without getting concessions in return , and , above all , we do not want the next President to be one who will reduce the strength of America unless we 're absolutely sure that the enemies of peace are also reducing their strength at the same time .
% argument 123 corresponds to the sentence But he has been standing for the right . He has been standing for peace , for real disarmament , for helping our friends abroad . All these things he has been standing for .
% argument 124 corresponds to the sentence Today , 100 years later , I come from my native city of Boston to Wisconsin , to tell you that Carl Schurz 's teachings have not been forgotten . That I know , and all Americans realize , that peace and disarmament are remote and difficult goals . But we have chosen them as ideals to guide our actions .
% argument 125 corresponds to the sentence Whenever that balance changes , whenever the Soviet Union gains strength as against our strength , war 's danger increases , because they are wanting to use their strength not as we are , for peace , but to conquer the world . So , anytime we make a disarmament agreement which does not have inspection , under which they might increase their strength as against ours , it increases the risk of war . That 's why I say that we stand for peace when we say , as President Eisenhower says : Yes , we will go to Geneva and discuss disarmament and stopping tests ; yes , we will go to the summit and discuss disarmament and stopping tests .
% argument 126 corresponds to the sentence Perhaps the science of inspection will be unable to keep pace with advancing weapons technology . But no matter how difficult the problems are , how discouraging the obstacles , how uncertain the prospect for agreement , we must , nevertheless , begin a determined , large-scale effort to prepare ourselves for disarmament - to formulate constructive and realistic proposals which have a chance of success . For the hopes of all mankind rest on successful disarmament .
% argument 127 corresponds to the sentence We had no position and we adopted that of the British . Our negotiators had to leave Geneva during the Conference itself to come to Washington to find out what our position was , and again we failed to prepare for disarmament . Throughout the consistent history of indifference and failure the arms race has continued to mount .
% argument 128 corresponds to the sentence Only the President can overcome the frictions and differences between those agencies ; only he can weld all the parts of the Executive into a singleness of purpose in the pursuit of peace , and only the President can make the hard decisions , decisions involving peace or war , destruction or survival , which peace programs as well as war programs will surely bring . The struggle for disarmament will not be an easy one . For disarmament is an ideal just as peace itself is an ideal , but it was a great son of Wisconsin , Carl Schurz , who said : Ideals are like stars ; you will not succeed in touching them with your hands .
% argument 129 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] And the reason that we insist that disarmament must not be just a fine slogan but that it must be honest and that there must be an agreement which will see that both sides keep it is not because we do not want disarmament but because we do want disarmament . We want the fact of disarmament rather than the fiction of it which is what the Soviets up to this time have been offering , since they have not offered inspection along with it .
% argument 130 corresponds to the sentence I have those who have written to me and said ,  Now , Mr. Nixon , you 're a Quaker , you believe in peace . Why is it that you stand against the proposals for disarmament that are made by Mr. Khrushchev ? Why is it that we ca n't go more than halfway on these proposals and take some of them on faith ?  I want to tell you why we ca n't . Because if the United States ever enters into a disarmament agreement with the Soviet or with any other potential aggressor which they might break and which we would keep , that would increase the danger of war rather than reduce it and that we must never do .
% argument 131 corresponds to the sentence No home was safe and there was no freedom of religious worship . Mr. Khrushchev is in our country now , as he was a year ago , confident that all is going his way , smug in his recent successes , and piously talking about peace , colonialism , and disarmament . But how can you talk of peace , Mr. Khrushchev , when you and your Chinese Communist friends are undermining the peace every day , creating disorder and danger wherever you move ? How can you talk of colonialism when you are surrounded by your puppet dictators and when you hold in an iron grip a great empire stretching from East Berlin to Vietnam ? How can you talk of the achievements of your system , even if you beat us again by putting a man into outer space ? For we know that while you may bring a man back from outer space , you rarely bring one back alive from Siberia .
% argument 132 corresponds to the sentence He has worked to see that this new country and all others can retain its independence and this all Americans are proud of . Yes ; he has worked for disarmament but not a phony disarmament because this Nation must never disarm until we get absolute assurance that those who threaten the peace of the world , as we do not , are also disarming at the same time . And all Americans support the President in that I 'm sure .
% argument 133 corresponds to the sentence For peace will not come solely through the conference room and the propaganda machine . Rather the road to a world at peace runs through a revitalized and growing American economy , through the arduous construction of defenses so powerful that the Communists know that peace is their only alternative , through vast research projects to solve the complex difficulties of controlling modern arms , through carefully prepared disarmament programs to be presented by skilled and experienced negotiators , and through the exercise of a firm Presidential leadership which will never allow either our own representatives or the rest of the world to wonder what our position is , to wonder indeed , if we have any position at all , or to doubt the sincerity of our desire for disarmament . Words alone will never impress Mr. Khrushchev .
% argument 134 corresponds to the sentence But I can not believe that there is one person in this State or Nation who would not like to see the arms race ended - the threat of war recede - and the billions now spent on weapons of destruction turned to schools and hospitals and homes and dams . With careful planning for reconversion , this State would enjoy a greater boom under disarmament than it ever enjoyed in the cold war . For peace is our deepest aspiration .
% argument 135 corresponds to the sentence Our negotiators had to leave Geneva for Washington during the conference itself to try to find out what our policy was . Again , we had failed to prepare for disarmament . We had developed no real policy or position .
% argument 136 corresponds to the sentence Such an effort requires not only long-term development loans but education , student exchanges , stepped up Voice of America broadcasts , concerned and competent Ambassadors , and a wide range of measures designed to increase the strength of freedom and stimulate the economic advance on which freedom often depends . Fourth , we will strengthen our planning the preparation for disarmament . One of the most glaring failures of the past 8 years has been our failure to prepare properly for any arms control conference since the end of the Korean war .
% argument 137 corresponds to the sentence And the Soviet Union has consistently had the initiative in the eyes of the world . At a time when our relative military strength was much higher than it is today , from 1953-55 , there was not a single top person in the entire Government working full time on disarmament . We did not come up with a single major new proposal for arms control .
% argument 138 corresponds to the sentence  Let me tell you about disarmament . When people say ,  I 'm for disarmament ,  and when some people write to me and say  Why , when Mr. Khrushchev comes over and says he 's for total disarmament - why do we have to insist on inspection ? Why ,  they say ,  could n't we just do it ? Would n't that be real leadership in the world ? Would n't that be bold and imaginative ?  Yes , it would ; but do you know what would happen ? The moment the United States ever enters into an agreement for disarmament , which would result in increasing his strength as against ours , we do n't help the cause of peace . We hurt it , because - why is America the guardian of peace today ? Because we 're the strongest nation in the world , and the difference is : We do n't want to use our strength for anything except to keep the peace .
% argument 139 corresponds to the sentence In other words , maintaining a position of equality permits you to negotiate more successfully . It is a source of concern to me that this Government has had less than 100 people scattered through the entire Federal Government working on the subject of disarmament . I would put more people into it .
% argument 140 corresponds to the sentence The arms control research institute would coordinate and direct all these research efforts , carrying them on itself or farming them out to private firms and universities . The scattered disarmament technicians , scientists , and policymakers could at last work as a unit with a central purpose and direction given by the President himself . Third - we must begin , perhaps within the framework of the arms control research institute , to plan for the reconversion of our economy from war to peace .
% argument 141 corresponds to the sentence Secondly , peace requires an America that is planning , preparing , and striving for disarmament and other steps toward peace . Disarmament today is just as complicated as armaments - involving complex problems of surveillance , reconnaissance , seismography , atmospheric sampling and testing stations . A successful blueprint for a safe disarmament is as difficult to devise as a successful blueprint for modern war .
arg(a137).
arg(a59).
arg(a114).
arg(a126).
arg(a81).
arg(a71).
arg(a130).
arg(a31).
arg(a29).
arg(a85).
arg(a57).
arg(a132).
arg(a67).
arg(a91).
arg(a84).
arg(a53).
arg(a19).
arg(a55).
arg(a73).
arg(a138).
arg(a135).
arg(a38).
arg(a48).
arg(a98).
arg(a110).
arg(a82).
arg(a24).
arg(a42).
arg(a33).
arg(a65).
arg(a134).
arg(a66).
arg(a21).
arg(a34).
arg(a5).
arg(a13).
arg(a108).
arg(a95).
arg(a93).
arg(a125).
arg(a113).
arg(a124).
arg(a86).
arg(a12).
arg(a47).
arg(a131).
arg(a117).
arg(a123).
arg(a14).
arg(a22).
arg(a119).
arg(a118).
arg(a90).
arg(a28).
arg(a18).
arg(a77).
arg(a25).
arg(a129).
arg(a32).
arg(a94).
arg(a62).
arg(a127).
arg(a89).
arg(a40).
arg(a109).
arg(a36).
arg(a128).
arg(a103).
arg(a60).
arg(a120).
arg(a70).
arg(a44).
arg(a17).
arg(a76).
arg(a1).
arg(a51).
arg(a112).
arg(a52).
arg(a87).
arg(a58).
arg(a41).
arg(a72).
arg(a11).
arg(a139).
arg(a64).
arg(a10).
arg(a27).
arg(a20).
arg(a49).
arg(a37).
arg(a61).
arg(a102).
arg(a4).
arg(a75).
arg(a2).
arg(a45).
arg(a121).
arg(a63).
arg(a106).
arg(a115).
arg(a54).
arg(a39).
arg(a133).
arg(a8).
arg(a78).
arg(a140).
arg(a83).
arg(a107).
arg(a116).
arg(a16).
arg(a92).
arg(a79).
arg(a100).
arg(a97).
arg(a80).
arg(a69).
arg(a105).
arg(a99).
arg(a7).
arg(a26).
arg(a6).
arg(a9).
arg(a23).
arg(a96).
arg(a3).
arg(a68).
arg(a46).
arg(a111).
arg(a104).
arg(a35).
arg(a15).
arg(a50).
arg(a56).
arg(a101).
arg(a122).
arg(a30).
arg(a43).
arg(a141).
arg(a88).
arg(a74).
arg(a136).
att(a137, a59).
sup(a59, a132).
att(a114, a12).
att(a114, a103).
att(a114, a73).
sup(a114, a63).
sup(a126, a105).
att(a81, a137).
att(a81, a10).
att(a81, a127).
att(a81, a68).
sup(a81, a128).
sup(a71, a115).
sup(a31, a9).
sup(a31, a141).
att(a29, a79).
sup(a29, a47).
sup(a57, a74).
sup(a132, a104).
sup(a132, a62).
sup(a91, a67).
sup(a53, a96).
sup(a19, a76).
sup(a19, a27).
sup(a55, a130).
att(a138, a90).
att(a138, a86).
att(a138, a45).
att(a138, a101).
att(a135, a122).
att(a48, a98).
att(a48, a42).
att(a48, a126).
att(a48, a10).
sup(a48, a90).
sup(a48, a59).
sup(a48, a122).
sup(a48, a44).
att(a110, a65).
att(a82, a79).
sup(a24, a23).
att(a42, a105).
sup(a33, a61).
sup(a134, a30).
sup(a134, a129).
sup(a66, a141).
sup(a66, a51).
sup(a34, a119).
att(a13, a94).
att(a108, a130).
att(a93, a73).
att(a125, a44).
att(a125, a35).
att(a125, a5).
att(a125, a24).
sup(a125, a126).
att(a113, a137).
att(a113, a14).
att(a113, a16).
sup(a113, a28).
sup(a113, a126).
sup(a113, a15).
sup(a113, a50).
sup(a113, a23).
sup(a113, a128).
sup(a124, a59).
sup(a117, a76).
att(a123, a111).
sup(a123, a46).
sup(a22, a41).
sup(a118, a47).
sup(a18, a65).
att(a77, a120).
sup(a77, a51).
sup(a77, a58).
sup(a32, a12).
sup(a62, a102).
sup(a62, a22).
sup(a40, a33).
sup(a109, a78).
att(a36, a50).
att(a60, a23).
sup(a120, a7).
sup(a120, a47).
att(a44, a23).
sup(a44, a50).
att(a17, a87).
att(a17, a92).
sup(a1, a78).
sup(a1, a66).
sup(a112, a118).
att(a52, a133).
att(a52, a24).
att(a52, a60).
sup(a52, a59).
sup(a52, a101).
sup(a52, a122).
sup(a52, a50).
sup(a87, a139).
att(a58, a69).
att(a72, a1).
sup(a72, a107).
sup(a72, a26).
sup(a72, a100).
sup(a11, a116).
sup(a139, a77).
sup(a139, a26).
att(a64, a140).
att(a64, a44).
att(a64, a80).
att(a64, a36).
att(a10, a23).
sup(a10, a116).
att(a27, a69).
att(a20, a127).
att(a20, a45).
att(a20, a25).
att(a20, a38).
sup(a20, a122).
sup(a20, a39).
sup(a37, a59).
att(a61, a42).
att(a61, a45).
sup(a61, a140).
sup(a61, a39).
sup(a61, a50).
sup(a102, a83).
sup(a4, a55).
sup(a75, a139).
sup(a2, a53).
att(a121, a42).
att(a121, a14).
att(a121, a85).
att(a121, a16).
att(a121, a60).
sup(a121, a105).
sup(a121, a39).
sup(a106, a41).
sup(a106, a67).
att(a54, a95).
att(a54, a21).
sup(a54, a90).
sup(a54, a86).
sup(a54, a15).
sup(a54, a43).
sup(a39, a122).
att(a8, a126).
att(a8, a68).
att(a8, a80).
att(a8, a85).
sup(a8, a23).
sup(a8, a60).
sup(a78, a51).
sup(a78, a89).
att(a83, a70).
sup(a83, a56).
sup(a107, a131).
sup(a107, a55).
sup(a16, a116).
sup(a100, a13).
sup(a100, a76).
sup(a6, a97).
att(a9, a79).
att(a3, a59).
att(a46, a99).
sup(a111, a46).
sup(a111, a70).
att(a15, a122).
sup(a122, a132).
sup(a122, a6).
att(a43, a23).
sup(a141, a129).
att(a88, a21).
att(a88, a38).
sup(a88, a98).
sup(a88, a43).
sup(a74, a122).
att(a136, a40).
att(a136, a93).
sup(a136, a12).
sup(a136, a84).
sup(a136, a73).
sup(a136, a49).
sup(a136, a32).
