% argument 1 corresponds to the sentence As a matter of fact , my friends , on every one of these three instances his friends and supporters say : But , Mr. Nixon , he changed his mind . He 's now for the President on Cuba . He now says that the President did the right thing in Paris .
% argument 2 corresponds to the sentence And on the other side there is the wrong and demagogic way - the right that I have pointed out , the wrong which Senator Kennedy has advocated - and I say this is a way of shooting from the hip on matters gravely affecting the security of the United States . And , so , finally , let 's look at the record , all three , the position on Quemoy and Matsu - slice off a bit of freedom ; maybe it will lead to peace ; the position on the summit conference - express regrets to Khrushchev ; maybe we can save the conference , and then this latest episode with regard to Cuba . I think when you look at these three episodes that this should convince many Americans that they could not rest well at night with a man with such a total lack of judgment as Commander in Chief of our Armed Forces in this critical period .
% argument 3 corresponds to the sentence The administration was not concerned about the problem of providing for free elections and democracy in all of Latin America and sooner or later dictatorships lead to control of the national movement by the Communists . It happened in Iraq , it happened in Cuba , it will happen any place . Anyone who feels that you can do business with a dictator year after year because he is going to vote with you in the United Nations , sooner or later the Communists will gather control of the opposition movement and when he goes they will seize control .
% argument 4 corresponds to the sentence Secondly , also before the threat reached that stage , each of these areas had been visited by Mr. Richard Nixon . Why was not our Latin American capital investment program strengthened in 1958 , after Mr. Nixon was there , instead of this summer at the point of Mr. Castro 's gun ? Why did we not encourage free elections in Cuba after Mr. Nixon was there in 1955 , in order to stave off a revolt against what he called in a Havana press conference in 1955  the competence and stability  of the Batista dictatorship ? Why are we suddenly embarking now on a crash program for African scholarships for students ? Last year we allocated no scholarships at all to the Congo , practically none to other French and Belgian colonies and , indeed , practically none to the continent of Africa itself . We have allocated more scholarships this summer to the Congo than we allocated to all of Africa a year ago .
% argument 5 corresponds to the sentence And then third , the incident on Cuba ; again a point of issue in our debate . Here it was shooting from the hip , but missing the mark , the President taking the correct position of quarantining Mr. Castro , quarantining him by economic and political means , and Mr. Kennedy then saying this is n't enough , we 've got to go further and then making the outrageous suggestion that the Government of the United States should intervene directly - and that 's the way it was interpreted all over the world - into Cuba . This would have invited the Communists in , probably resulted in civil war or world war .
% argument 6 corresponds to the sentence He would as far as the summit conference is concerned when he criticized the President , in effect , by saying he could have apologized or expressed regrets to Khrushchev . He would in regard to Cuba . And I say we ca n't afford to have the White House as a training ground for an inexperienced man who is rash and impulsive at the present time .
% argument 7 corresponds to the sentence We have not done so . Cuba is only a phase of a great struggle which will take place in the next decade . We talk about Mr. Castro .
% argument 8 corresponds to the sentence I realize that line is subject to criticism , because we have a very difficult situation ; but to those who do criticize what we are doing my answer , of course , is : What is the alternative ? There are those who say ,  Why do n't we send Marines to Cuba ?  We could do it and we could give it to Mr. Castro in 24 hours , but getting rid of Castro in Cuba would not get rid of Castroism in Cuba or in Latin America and it would set in motion , in my opinion , a chain reaction of opposition to the United States through the other Latin American countries , which could be very , very detrimental to our foreign policy . That 's why I think the United States , with its great power , has to continue to treat Cuba , as it has , with consideration , always patient , working with our other friends in Latin America , to be sure that they will support our position toward Castro and toward his close association with communism in Cuba . I would add one other thing : I think that Mr. Castro 's very close identification with Mr. Khrushchev at the U.N. will not help him in Cuba .
% argument 9 corresponds to the sentence In cutting off a carefully limited number of the American goods which can be sent to Cuba Mr. Nixon has made a dramatic but almost empty gesture - a gesture which will have so little impact on Castro as to be almost meaningless . The State Department itself admits that our exports to Cuba have already declined by more than 50 percent since Castro took power . This latest move merely accelerates and aids a long-standing Castro policy - a policy which the State Department itself recognized in its statement this morning - a policy of eliminating all Cuban dependence on American goods , shifting Cuban trade to the Communist bloc .
% argument 10 corresponds to the sentence Thank you . We know the right way , and our opponent offers a way which would have lost us our friends in Latin America - the tremendous outrage that they exploded with , once he made that very silly and foolish and immature suggestion of his that we ought to intervene directly in Cuba . Now , of course , he has jumped off it , just as he jumps off every position when we pin him down .
% argument 11 corresponds to the sentence It 's been done , incidentally , over the objection of some well-intentioned , but hopelessly naive Castro apologists within the United States - and all that I can say with regard to Senator Kennedy 's position is that he apparently is attempting to obscure his association with the views of this pro-Castro group as indicated in the book that I mentioned a moment ago or he must have thought now that there would be political advantage in taking a stronger position than I have taken , a radical position , instead of the strong and sound position that the administration has taken . And , so , what does he suggest ? He comes up , as I pointed up , with the fantastic recommendation that the U.S. Government shall directly aid the anti-Castro forces both in and out of Cuba . Now , every freedom-loving person in the United States - let 's make it clear - is in sympathy with the democratic anti-Castro forces in Cuba and outside Cuba .
% argument 12 corresponds to the sentence But if that is what the American people want , if they want to close in and let the future pass them by , take Mr. Nixon . But if you want to move again , if you want this country to meet its responsibilities , if you have confidence that there is nothing we can not do , once given the opportunity to do so , if you believe that people want to be free as they do , that Khrushchev and Castro and the rest of them represent a system which is as old as time , domination of one man by another , which goes against the grain of every person whether they live in the Soviet Union or whether they live in Cuba - they want to be free . They may be misled , they may be dominated by a police state , they may be scared in other countries that the tide is moving in the direction of the Communists .
% argument 13 corresponds to the sentence We can not be committed by a party of the past . We can not wait for Mr. Khrushchev 's words , for the Communists are not satisfied with their gains of the last months , with their lead in missiles and space , and their foothold in Cuba , and half of Indochina , and their new influence in Laos and Africa and Asia . They will keep on driving and expanding and gaining without regard to all the kitchen debates and without regard to what goes on in the United Nations unless we have a President and a country in the 1960 's that acts first and acts fast .
% argument 14 corresponds to the sentence I approved of his trip . But who does Mr. Nixon think he fools in the last 3 weeks of an election , who does he think he fools when he says we will have no more debates after this week , as he goes around the country casting his innuendoes , suggesting that we in the Democratic Party are not as devoted to the cause of freedom , implying that for some reason or other we were misled by Khrushchev and he understood him all the time ? I was not the Vice President of the United States who presided over the communization of Cuba . [ Applause .
% argument 15 corresponds to the sentence As a matter of fact , this talk about the fact that Cuba is lost and that Ghana is lost , and Guinea is lost , incidentally - and they have also claimed that - is irresponsible in the extreme . Cuba is not lost . The fact that Castro , of course , is following a pro-Communist line at the present time causes us great concern , but there are plenty of things that we can do and are doing , and we 're taking some very firm steps , as you know , to quarantine Castro in that area .
% argument 16 corresponds to the sentence I was in Cuba in 1957 and the American Ambassador informed me that the American Ambassador was the second most influential man in Cuba . There is not any doubt we had great influence in Cuba , and I think it is unfortunate that we did not use that influence more vigorously to persuade Mr. Batista to hold free , open elections , so that the people of Cuba could have made the choice , rather than holding onto his power and finally driven out by Castro at the point of a gun . Mr. Castro is now a Communist .
% argument 17 corresponds to the sentence His ambitions extend far beyond his own shores . He has transformed the island of Cuba into a hostile and militant Communist satellite - a base from which to carry Communist infiltration and subversion throughout the Americas . With guidance , support , and arms from Moscow and Peiping , he has made anti-Americanism a sign of loyalty and anti-communism a punishable crime - confiscated over a billion dollars ' worth of American property - threatened the existence of our naval base at Guantanamo - and rattled red rockets at the United States , which can hardly close its eyes to a potential enemy missile or submarine base only 90 miles from our shores .
% argument 18 corresponds to the sentence I would put this directly at the top . On the question of Castro , I would attempt to tell the people of Cuba by every known way , including radio and television , and today we have no radio or television to Cuba from the Government , telling them that we want them to be free , that Castro is past . And by working with the people of Latin America and the governments trying to isolate Castro until finally the people of Cuba can be free again .
% argument 19 corresponds to the sentence But his only reaction was to praise  the competence and stability  of the Batista dictatorship which was , even then , threatened by Communist activities - and to say that  communism has reached its high-water mark in Latin America  at a time when Communist influence was beginning to rise , and only a few short years before the Communists took over all of Cuba . Mr. Nixon saw nothing wrong in Cuba - he made no recommendations for action - he did not warn America that danger was growing - and as a result the Communists took over Cuba with virtually no opposition from the United States . Now the Communists have been in power for 2 years .
% argument 20 corresponds to the sentence Africa could determine to make itself free . Cuba could change . All these things could move in one direction or another in the next 10 years .
% argument 21 corresponds to the sentence In Asia , in Africa , in South America , all over the world , where a billion people live , so-called underdeveloped or newly developing countries - a conflict is going on for the allegiance of men and women . It 's a conflict which is difficult from our standpoint ; it is one that I am sure many Americans sometimes are tempted to brush off by saying : Let 's draw within our own shell , let 's build our own strength and be tough at the conference table and let the rest of the world go hang , because when you see what happens in Laos - after all the money we 've spent there - when you see the troubles in the Congo , when you read of what 's happening in Cuba , there is a temptation to engage in the kind of thinking that I have just described . But let us never forget that if America fails its responsibility to the world that the world will be lost and we will be lost with it , because the Communists are working .
% argument 22 corresponds to the sentence There is resentment against the so-called colossus of the north , resentment which we could understand if we were in the same position , I am sure . Now , as far as our program toward Cuba is concerned though I would say that , from what I have learned , from talking to some Latin American leaders and from the reports I have read from our diplomats who have talked to Latin American leaders in other countries , they applaud what the United States has been doing toward Castro , by the strength that we have shown , the fact that we have not thrown our weight around in a way that many would have thought would have been unreasonable . They feel we were correct , I think , the majority of them , in acting as we did with regard to the sugar , the taking away of special consideration that we had with regard to sugar .
% argument 23 corresponds to the sentence I can tell you that , knowing this man , the moment you make a concession , the moment you give in to that kind of blackmail , it only encourages him to stomp on you , and here again I say : This is how he would have acted had he been President . And then third , the incident on Cuba ; again a point of issue in our debate . Here it was shooting from the hip , but missing the mark , the President taking the correct position of quarantining Mr. Castro , quarantining him by economic and political means , and Mr. Kennedy then saying this is n't enough , we 've got to go further and then making the outrageous suggestion that the Government of the United States should intervene directly - and that 's the way it was interpreted all over the world - into Cuba .
% argument 24 corresponds to the sentence But what I do suggest is that at least we have some concern , some recognition , some idea of the changing nature of our times . The whole problem in Cuba is not a dialogue about Mr. Castro . The whole problem in Cuba is what is going to happen in the rest of Latin America , whose side is going to be successful in those areas , which system offers the hope to these people .
% argument 25 corresponds to the sentence He has had an opportunity to study the long-range needs of each area - to recommend new policies for the administration - and to see that those recommendations are properly carried out . What has been the result ? Today , in six key areas around the world , we are reacting too late to a cold war crisis where the cause of freedom is in serious trouble ; in Cuba , where Communists openly plot the disruption of hemispheric security - in Ghana , whose President was assailed by Mr. Herter last week as  very definitely leaning toward the Soviet bloc  - in Japan , where the anti-American demonstrations have already been mentioned - in the area once known as Indochina , where the tiny nation of Laos is struggling to keep its head above a Communist tide - in Poland , where the once hopeful cracks in the Iron Curtain seem to be gradually disappearing - and in India , where the one nation capable of surpassing China for the economic leadership of the Asian continent is meeting one setback after another . These six areas are far apart in their geography , their history , their devotion to freedom and the kind of threat their situations now pose .
% argument 26 corresponds to the sentence It seems to me it would have been far more valuable for us to be striking a blow for freedom , to stand for freedom , to use our great influence , which we had in Cuba at that time to persuade Batista to hold free elections , so that the people of Cuba could have a free choice . The fact of the matter is that when I was in Cuba 4 years ago , the American Ambassador said to me he was the second most powerful man in Cuba . Today the Soviet Ambassador is , and the reason is because the United States did not use its influence .
% argument 27 corresponds to the sentence So , here are two instances . And then we have the instance of Cuba , an instance again where the intentions were good , but where , because of lack of knowledge , apparently , or understanding , he made a suggestion which has rocked the capitals of the world . It has dismayed our friends .
% argument 28 corresponds to the sentence And the young men and women , those who are students , those who teach them , those who represent the intellectual vitality of these countries , began to look to the United States as a dynamic country which carried with it a hope for a better life for people all over the world . Should we be astonished at what is happening in the Congo today when they have less than a handful , probably less than 14 , college graduates in the whole country ? When there is no officer who is a Negro who is native in any of their armed forces ? Do you think that a country can manage a system as sensitive as democracy when it does not have the chance to educate its people ? In Laos , Cambodia , the Congo , and Cuba we have seen in the last few years the tide turn against us . But I do not concern myself with the feeling that the decline of the United States has set in. This is a great country .
% argument 29 corresponds to the sentence And then my opponent said : Oh , this is too little ; this is too late - and , shooting from the hip , but missing the mark , as he so often has done [ cheers and applause ] - what he did was - he shot from the hip , and he said - this is too little and too late . The Government should directly aid the anti-Castro forces in and out of Cuba . And a storm of protest arose all over the Americas , in the United Nations ; and , so , the next day he said : I did n't mean it that way .
% argument 30 corresponds to the sentence We occupy a position of leadership in the world , but I think we can do far better , than our record of the past 2 or 3 or 4 years . Can you tell me anywhere in a crisis , from Cuba to the Congo to Laos , where the United States has been ahead of events ? We have held out our hands of friendship to the people of Latin America before we had to , where we did it at our own free will rather than at the point of Castro 's pistol ? We go now and offer a program of Africa to the United Nations . We offer a program of aid ; We offer scholarships to the Congo .
% argument 31 corresponds to the sentence The Associated Press this month featured an excellent survey by Relman Morin entitled  U.S. Prestige Is Damaged in Asia  - citing our image in that continent as that of a  well-meaning but confused and confusing giant .  To the Asian , this report said , the administration 's policy on Cuba  was a clear case of American indecision , fumbling , and possible weakness .  The events of last summer , the survey reported - the U-2 , summit , and Toyko chain of events -  appear to have shown that the United States was weak , indecisive , incapable of evaluating trends , anticipating developments and formulating action to meet them .
% argument 32 corresponds to the sentence And the third point - and this is what I call shooting from the hip - the difficult problem in Cuba , this little pipsqueak , Castro , down there stirring it up ; and , so , everybody says ; Why do n't we get rid of him ? Why do n't we send the Marines in ? My friends , the reason we do n't is that we do n't want to make a second Hungary out of 5 million people on the island of Cuba . The reason we do n't is that we know the people of Cuba will take care of this or any other dictator in their good time if they get the moral support of the United States . So , the President said : We will quarantine Castro .
% argument 33 corresponds to the sentence The Government said this mine was no longer needed . They admitted that cobalt was essential - they admitted we needed a safe supply - but they said we would be able to get all the cobalt we needed from such friendly countries as Cuba and the Congo . They were wrong about Cuba - they were wrong about the Congo .
% argument 34 corresponds to the sentence For we have not only supported a dictatorship in Cuba - we have propped up dictators in Venezuela , Argentina , Colombia , Paraguay , and the Dominican Republic . We not only ignored poverty and distress in Cuba - we have failed in the past 8 years to relieve poverty and distress throughout the hemisphere . For despite the bleak poverty that grips nearly all of Latin America - with an average income of less than $ 285 a year - with an exploding population that threatens even this meager standard of living - yet our aid programs have continued to concentrate on wasteful military assistance until we made a sudden recognition of their needs for development capital practically at the point of Mr. Castro 's gun .
% argument 35 corresponds to the sentence [ Cheers and applause . ] And then , three , we have the lesson in Cuba , here again the President , with great statesmanship , saying he will contain Mr. Castro ; we will contain him economically and politically , Senator Kennedy saying  No '  ; we 've got to go further , and then shooting from the hip , advocating direct Government intervention , in effect , and it was interpreted that way all over the free world , in the affairs of Cuba . What would that have done ? It would have decimated the people of that island .
% argument 36 corresponds to the sentence We could have tried to inject ourselves into the Congo without honoring our commitments to the United Nations charter , just as Khrushchev seems to be trying to do . We could have turned Cuba into a second Hungary . But we can be eternally grateful that we have a man in the White House who did none of these things .
% argument 37 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] I have asked Mr. Nixon to participate in a fifth debate which I think should cover the question of Cuba and other important problems facing the American people . I still find it impossible to understand why Mr. Nixon wants to limit the debate to one subject where there are so many important problems facing the American people .
% argument 38 corresponds to the sentence Guinea and Ghana have both moved in the direction of associating themselves with Soviet policy . Cuba is not the only example . What I am concerned about is in 1970 I do n't want to see independent country after independent country begin to move where Guinea and Ghana have gone , where the Congo almost went and may still go , where Cuba has already gone , because for a simple reason they feel that the Communists represent the future , they feel that we are identified with the past , they feel that we are identified with colonialism , they feel that we are identified with the kind of future which they do not want .
% argument 39 corresponds to the sentence I want to say , in all fairness , he 's taken back all three of these things He says he now supports the President on Quemoy and Matsu . He said he did n't really mean the President did the wrong thing in Paris , and he says : All along I did n't mean what everybody thought I meant about Cuba . I really meant what the President said - we want to give moral support to the cause of freedom .
% argument 40 corresponds to the sentence It is a program like this which is the ultimate answer to Castro and the Communists . For if Latin America is moving forward , if it is progressing under democratic government , then eventually the people of Cuba too will demand freedom for themselves , and Communist rule in Latin America will perish where it began - in the streets of Havana . I believe in a Western Hemisphere where we in the United States do not speak atronizingly of  our backyard  or our  little brothers ,  and where the people of South America do not speak with hostility of the  colossus of the north  or shout  Yankee go home .
% argument 41 corresponds to the sentence The decision is yours . Boos , shouts , screams , applause on November 8 you have to make a judgment as to what kind of a country you want , whether you feel what we are doing now is good enough , whether you feel that the prestige and power of the United States in the world is rising fast enough , whether you are satisfied to see the United States - and Cuba , 90 miles from the shores of the United States , dominated by a Communist satellite , whether you are satisfied to see two countries of Africa independent in the last 2 years now supporting the Communist Party , whether you are satisfied to see Laos , upon whom the future of all Indochina may rest , now slipping , tonight , not a year ago , tonight , and the next few days , maybe slipping beyond the Iron Curtain . These are not matters that any American in 1960 can boo about .
% argument 42 corresponds to the sentence Do you now contend that the quotation is inaccurate ? Your language clearly means what James Reston of the New York Times said it means , as I quoted in my telegram to you , as follows : His [ Mr . Kennedy 's ] statement this week on Cuba publicly calling for Government aid to overthrow Castro is a clear violation of the inter-American treaty prohibition against intervention in the internal affairs of the hemisphere republics . Virtually every major newspaper which has commented on the subject understood your remarks as Mr. Reston did and as I did that you were advocating direct Government support of the anti-Castro forces both in exile and in Cuba .
% argument 43 corresponds to the sentence Now he says he really did n't mean it that way . He disagreed with the President on Cuba , but now he says his position is really about the same as the President 's . Over and over again , we find him saying one thing one day and another thing another day , as soon as he reads the polls or hears the people .
% argument 44 corresponds to the sentence I have never advocated and I do not now advocate intervention in Cuba in violation of our treaty obligations and in fact stated in Johnstown , Pa . , that whatever we did with regard to Cuba should be within the confines of international law . What I have advocated is that we use all available commuuications - radio , television , and the press - and the moral power of the American Government - to let the forces of freedom in Cuba know that we believe that freedom will again rise in their country .
% argument 45 corresponds to the sentence Everywhere I go in this campaign , I find people asking : What 's the matter with America ? Why are we slipping , why are we losing friends around the world ? Why are we losing the lead to Russia ? Why are n't we meeting the Communist challenge - from Cuba to the Congo , from India to Indonesia ? Four years ago the cold war was being carried on thousands of miles away . This year it spread to within 90 miles of Florida to Cuba . And next week when Mr. Khrushchev and Mr. Castro arrive in New York they will bring the cold war to within 12 miles of the Bergen Mall .
% argument 46 corresponds to the sentence This would n't have happened under Franklin Roosevelt , who warned the Nazis in 1940 to stay out of our hemisphere ; this would n't have happened under Harry Truman who warned the Communists in 1947 to stay out of Greece and Turkey . And this would not have happened in Cuba if the Republican leadership Mr. Nixon represents every step which foresight and experience should have directed them to take - in order to prevent a Communist victory only 90 miles from our shores . I do not know how Mr. Nixon can talk of firmness in view of his party 's record in Cuba .
% argument 47 corresponds to the sentence These people will feel they have no chance , and then , of course , they will listen to Castros . So I would suggest that the United States try to develop again the spirit of the good neighbor policy of Franklin Roosevelt , that we regard this as the first line of defense , that we bring in students , that we broadcast in Spanish to Cuba and all of Latin America , that we tell our story , that we help them distribute their agricultural products and resources , and maintain their economy and provide a gradual increase in the standard of living for each person . This is the key to Latin America .
% argument 48 corresponds to the sentence He was wrong . On the basis of his visit to Cuba , he praised the competence and stability of the Batista dictatorship , and said communism could never take over in that island . He was wrong .
% argument 49 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] I believe that the people of the United States would like to hear him discuss his views on an island not 4 miles off the coast of China , but 90 miles off the coast of the United States - Cuba . [ Applause .
% argument 50 corresponds to the sentence I do n't take the views that the only alternative to a dictator is a Communist dictator . If the United States had just had its influence , and at that time the United States was extremely powerful in Cuba , it seems to me we could have persuaded Mr. Batista to hold free elections at the time he was permitted to go and permit the Cuban people to make their choice instead of letting Castro seize power through revolution . I think we are going to have a good deal of trouble in the future with Castro through all of Latin America .
% argument 51 corresponds to the sentence He must never be rash or impulsive . That 's why President Eisenhower has followed a policy with regard to Cuba , of quarantining them diplomatically and economically , rather than a policy advocated by some of direct Government intervention in that country . The latter policy sounds good , but the President knew that if he did that , that he would lose , in effect , our allies and friends throughout the world .
% argument 52 corresponds to the sentence The President was right , right because no President can ever apologize for defending the security of the United States against surprise attack . And then , my friends , the third point you will recall if you heard our last debate , was on Cuba where he said the President was n't going far enough , and where he , in effect , advocated policies that were universally interpreted as meaning intervention in the affairs of Cuba . And what would that have meant ? It would have invited the very kind of intervention from abroad that could have brought war to this hemisphere and to the world .
% argument 53 corresponds to the sentence This is a great country , but it deserves the best that we have . I suppose 30 or 40 years ago , before the second administration of Woodrow Wilson , people who lived in this valley worried about their farms and their jobs , and now we worry about your farms and your jobs , but we worry about Cuba and the Congo and India and Indonesia , and the security of our families , and the chances for peace . I ask your help in this campaign .
% argument 54 corresponds to the sentence Fifth , I have tried in this campaign to address myself to the real issues confronting America - the real issue is world freedom or world slavery . World peace or world war , stopping the Communist advance which in 8 years has penetrated deep into Asia , Africa , the Middle East and Latin America - taking over Cuba itself - without firing a single shot or losing a single soldier . That is the real issue - peace - and my greatest objective is peace because I know something of war .
% argument 55 corresponds to the sentence And , worse still , it would have meant surrender at the conference table . And then the third instance , the instance of Cuba - here again shooting from the hip , but not in the Texas fashion , because he missed the mark completely [ cheers and applause ] shooting from the hip and , rather than following the President , who said we 'll handle this fellow , Castro , within our treaties by quarantining him economically and politically , he said : No; no. We 've got to go further than that . We 've got to break our treaties - and he did n't say that but that 's the way everything was interpreted .
% argument 56 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Three years ago when I was in Cuba , the American Ambassador was the second most influential man in Cuba . Today the Soviet Ambassador is .
% argument 57 corresponds to the sentence Now I just want to keep the record straight . I know that he 's said he 's changed his mind on this , that now he supports the President on the Formosa Straits , that really he did n't mean this business about apologizing and regretting , and as far as Cuba is concerned , he was misunderstood . My friends , let me say this .
% argument 58 corresponds to the sentence It did not require the polls taken by the U.S. Information Service to tell us that the balance of power is not shifting in our direction . Cuba , Latin America , Asia , China , Russia - the world is full of hazards and peril and opportunity in the 1960 's , and those hazards can be overcome , those perils can be met , those opportunities seized only if we in the United States are building a strong society committed to progress which the Republican Party has never been . [ Applause .
% argument 59 corresponds to the sentence Actually , the United States has given more assistance to Yugoslavia since the end of World War II than it has to all of Latin America combined . It is an unfortunate fact that the assistance which was proposed at the time of the Bogota Conference really represented assistance which the United States was determined to give Latin America only when our relations with Cuba soured to the point where we broke off the sugar quota . I think it would have been far wiser for the United States to have held out the hand of friendship 6 , 7 , or 8 years , to help to provide a long-term loan [ applause ] to help provide specifically long-term loans for their capital improvements .
% argument 60 corresponds to the sentence Major policy on issues such as Cuban security is made at the highest levels - in the National Security Council and elsewhere - and it is the party in power which must accept full responsibility for this disaster . The story of the transformation of Cuba from a friendly ally to a Communist base is - in large measure - the story of a government in Washington which lacked the imagination and compassion to understand the needs of the Cuban people - which lacked the leadership and vigor to move forward to meet those needs - and which lacked the foresight and vision to see the inevitable results of its own failures . And it is a tragic irony that even while these policies of failure here were being pursued our policymakers received repeated and urgent warnings that international communism was becoming a moving force behind Mr. Castro and the revolution - that our interest and the interests of freedom were in danger - that a new Soviet satellite was in the making .
% argument 61 corresponds to the sentence The harsh facts of the matter are that our security and leadership have both been slipping away from us , that the balance of world power has been shifting slowly to the Soviet - Red Chinese bloc and that our own shores have been , for the first time since 1812 , imperiled by chinks in our defensive armor . You sit in Miami , today , 90 miles from the shore of Cuba . For the first time in the history of the United States an enemy stands poised at the throat of the United States .
% argument 62 corresponds to the sentence  It is now clear that our prestige is not based on what we say but what we do , relative to what our enemies do . Mr. Nixon has said many times that our confusion on U-2 , the collapse of the summit , the cancellation of the President 's trip to Tokyo , our policies on Cuba were all great American triumphs . We wish they were .
% argument 63 corresponds to the sentence But in the case of both Africa and Latin America , the hour is late , the world is moving fast , our role and our position have changed , and I do think it is vitally important in those areas and in other areas that we precede events ; that we do not move after them . In other words , I do not like to see the United States offer assistance to Latin America as a result of difficulties in Cuba . I would like to see us offer the hand of friendship to Latin America because of a traditional conviction that the United States can not maintain its freedom unless Latin America is a strong and viable and growing hemisphere .
% argument 64 corresponds to the sentence But is n't it a somber fact that this administration has had less than 100 people working in the entire National Government on the subject of disarmament One-fifth as many as work for the U.S. Battle Monuments Commission are working on disarmament in this administration - 100 people scattered throughout the international government . And we can not avoid the menace of a Communist base on Cuba , only 90 miles from our shores , merely by wishing it had not happened , though I wish it had not . I wish this administration had been as alert to that as they now say they were .
% argument 65 corresponds to the sentence If he pursued the programs he has advocated domestically - programs which could only produce cruel inflation and Government interference with every aspect of our economic life , he could only pipe us to recession or worse . If he pursued the policies abroad which he has suggested , apology to Khrushchev , retreat in the Pacific , open interference in Cuba , he could only pipe us into grave international crisis or worse . Take a specific field : Senator Kennedy 's campaign to talk us into a recession has now reached phase 2. If elected , he says , he will counsel with President Eisenhower about how to deal with it .
% argument 66 corresponds to the sentence They 're going to stir up trouble . We 're going to have trouble not only in Cuba but in Japan and all over the world . Why ? Because they 're going to stir them up .
% argument 67 corresponds to the sentence Today , unlike 1940 , the nations of Latin America are distrustful of our guidance , suspicious of our intentions disillusioned by our actions . And today , unlike 1940 , the forces of alien tyranny have already found their way into the Western Hemisphere - to within 90 miles of your coast - to the island of Cuba . And this change has come about in the past 8 years .
% argument 68 corresponds to the sentence And I say to you today that in the affairs of nations , just as in the affairs of individuals , there comes a time when patience , which we have been displaying , is no longer a virtue - and that time is at hand as far as our dealings with Castro and his government are concerned . You will recall that last July we acted to safeguard our future sugar supplies by reducing the share allotted to Cuba . Now we must take further action to protect the interests of the United States and of our friendly sister Republics in the hemisphere .
% argument 69 corresponds to the sentence And the slight impact which Mr. Nixon 's latest policy will have - is even more diluted by our complete failure to seek the cooperation of our allies - thus making it simple for Mr. Castro to turn to other South American and European nations for those few goods which he ca n't get from Russia or Red China . For 6 years before Castro came to power the Republicans did absolutely nothing to stop the rise of communism in Cuba . Our Ambassadors repeatedly warned the Republicans of mounting danger .
% argument 70 corresponds to the sentence I am talking about peace - our future - and our children 's future . Everywhere I go in this campaign , I find people asking : What 's the matter with America ? Why are we slipping , why are we losing friends around the world ? Why are we losing the lead to Russia ? Why are n't we meeting the Communist challenge - from Cuba to the Congo , from India to Indonesia ? Four years ago the cold war was being carried on thousands of miles away . This year it spread to within 90 miles of Florida to Cuba .
% argument 71 corresponds to the sentence But the American people can not afford many more such experiences . For the transformation of Cuba into a Communist base of operations a few minutes from our coast - by jet plane , missile , or submarine - is an incredibly dangerous development to have been permitted by our Republican policymakers . Havana - once a city bursting with admiration for Franklin Roosevelt , the good neighbor - is now a center of Communist press , propaganda , and broadcasts spreading anti-Yankee sentiment throughout Latin America .
% argument 72 corresponds to the sentence And what did he say we ought to do ? And I quote him exactly . He said that we should support - the U.S. Government should support - the anti-Castro forces in and out of Cuba . What happened ? This had a terrible effect all over Latin America .
% argument 73 corresponds to the sentence He indicates now on Quemoy and Matsu he supports the President . He indicates now he did n't really intend to suggest that the President could have apologized , that he supported what the President did at the Paris Conference , and he says that as far as Cuba is concerned he meant all along that only he thought that we should give moral support to the cause of freedom - and that , of course , is what we have been doing all along . But , my friends , let me tell you one thing : A candidate can make a mistake and then take it back the next day and the country is no worse for it ; but a President ca n't .
% argument 74 corresponds to the sentence Cuba is not the only example . What I am concerned about is in 1970 I do n't want to see independent country after independent country begin to move where Guinea and Ghana have gone , where the Congo almost went and may still go , where Cuba has already gone , because for a simple reason they feel that the Communists represent the future , they feel that we are identified with the past , they feel that we are identified with colonialism , they feel that we are identified with the kind of future which they do not want . Why ? After all , what we want is their independence .
% argument 75 corresponds to the sentence Because , if any President - let 's assume Mr. Kennedy had been President had apologized to Mr. Khrushchev , Khrushchev , would have beaten him to a pulp , and we ca n't have a President doing that with Khrushchev or anybody else . And then in Cuba - again shooting from the hip - advocating a policy that would have broken our treaties , cost us our friends , gotten us probably , possibly certainly , into war . Of course , his defenders say he did n't mean it .
% argument 76 corresponds to the sentence Talk about the situation , for example , in Cuba . Does Mr. Khrushchev gain prestige because he shoots down hundreds of thousands of people in the streets of Budapest in Hungary ? And does President Eisenhower lose prestige for America because he does not use our great power as he could against Mr. Castro in Cuba and the Cuban people ? But he works with other American States in developing the opinions which will keep the Cuban people on our side when eventually they get the right to choose the kind of government they want to . No; we gain ; they do n't .
% argument 77 corresponds to the sentence The Paris Conference and the U-2 flights , he would have acted another way , different from the President . And then on Cuba he acted another way , or would have acted another way . Three times he 's been up .
% argument 78 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon chose to devote his speech here to Cuba . If there would be one topic that I would be reluctant to discuss if I were Republican , it would be Cuba . [ Applause .
% argument 79 corresponds to the sentence For America can not afford to continue to waste her resources and the skills of her people . The implacable Communist drive toward world domination now reaches to within 90 miles of our shores - on the once - friendly island of Cuba - and communism is on the march in Asia , and Africa and the Near East . In the face of such power and determination we can not afford to falter or lag behind .
% argument 80 corresponds to the sentence Equally important are the domestic issues which you and the Republican Party seem to wish to bury during this campaign - minimum wage , medical care for the aged , aid to education , and the rising rate of unemployment ; only a week ago you stated you were going to talk about Quemoy and Matsu every day for the final 3 weeks of the campaign . Now it is Cuba . These latter two are important issues but I think the American people want and deserve to hear us discuss all the important problems which face our country and to limit the subject of the fifth to one country would be to subvert the purpose of such a debate .
% argument 81 corresponds to the sentence So , I say to you : America should not take a chance on inexperienced leadership , however well intentioned it is , when you have experienced leadership that know these men and will deal with them effectively in the years ahead . And , now , if I may turn to one final point , and I mention this particularly to this group here , because there are some students here : Necessarily , in a campaign we have to discuss what we term the so-called hard issues in terms of foreign policy , specific issues like Cuba , Quemoy and Matsu , Lebanon , et cetera , and there is a tendency for Americans to forget the really important asset that we have in this great struggle in which we 're engaged . You know what it is ? It is n't our great military strength , and it is n't our great economic strength , and these are both tremendously significant and necessary ; but the strength of America is in what we believe .
% argument 82 corresponds to the sentence But Mr. Nixon did n't say a word that was ever publicly recorded . Even more incredible , he did n't say a word when the Communists took power in Cuba - not 4 miles off their shores , but only 90 miles off our shores . Mr. Nixon saw what was happening in Cuba .
% argument 83 corresponds to the sentence Three countries of Africa , newly independent in the last 2 years , have begun to move in the direction of the Communists . We have seen it in the case of Cuba . India hangs in the balance .
% argument 84 corresponds to the sentence But in the past 8 years we have not demonstrated such concern . We have reacted to a crisis in Guatemala or a crisis in Panama or a crisis in Cuba , and then , when the crisis was over , we continued to ignore the long-range problems and needs which were at the root of all the trouble . The good neighbor policy is no longer enough .
% argument 85 corresponds to the sentence Take my opponent , for example . He says on the Cuban situation that he did not intend to suggest that the American Government should intervene in the internal affairs of Cuba . And yet the words he used ,  the U.S. Government should support the anti-Castro forces in Cuba  have been interpreted by his friends among the press , by all the people abroad , by all of the allies of the United States , as meaning exactly that .
% argument 86 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon himself was in Latin America 5 years ago and here is what he said :  If we had produced economic progress in Cuba we might have averted the Cuban takeover .  Why did n't we ? That is what he said a month ago ; why did n't we in 1955 come forward with a program that would have prevented Castro from taking power ? When he was there in 1955 , he said , and you can judge his experience ,  I am convinced that communism has passed its highwater mark in Latin America ,  at a time when the Communists were about to communize Cuba . Our third failure has been our inability to establish contact with the young people of that area that will run the country .
% argument 87 corresponds to the sentence And then what did our opponent suggest ? He shot from the hip again , and he suggested something that caused consternation all over the world . He suggested Government intervention in effect , in the affairs of Cuba . There was so much consternation that the next day he took it back and said , I did n't mean it .
% argument 88 corresponds to the sentence First , I think we should be extremely vigorous in our programs through Latin America . We have two problems : one through Cuba , itself , and the other through the rest of Latin America . That will be the big fight in the sixties , whether Castroism or communism will spread through other countries .
% argument 89 corresponds to the sentence And , finally , instead of the hoped-for general relaxation of world tension , the Soviets have stepped up their efforts to create disorder , danger and division . They have established an Iron Curtain outpost only 90 miles from our shores in the once friendly nation of Cuba . They have , for the first time , extended their sphere of influence into Africa .
% argument 90 corresponds to the sentence You have developed the technique of having your writers rewrite my statements , using those rewritten statements and attacking me for things I have never said or advocated . This is certainly the record with regard to the speeches you have been making in the past 45 hours on Cuba . I have never advocated and I do not now advocate intervention in Cuba in violation of our treaty obligations and in fact stated in Johnstown , Pa .
% argument 91 corresponds to the sentence I am sure many of you who are listening tonight or viewing this program saw that debate , and you recall there that I and my opponent had a sharp disagreement . I stood with the President 's program with regard to Cuba . I said the program should be one of containing Castro , containing him economically and politically , containing him in this way by a quarantine program , in effect .
% argument 92 corresponds to the sentence So , now the question is : What are we going to do about Mr. Castro ? How do we get rid of Mr. Castro ? And here you have to have some statesmanship . Here you have to have some responsibility , and I want to say this : The easy thing for me to say would be to say ,  We 'll put the Marines down in Cuba and we 'll get rid of Castro ,  and we could do it in 24 hours . You know what would happen if we did that ? We 'd lose every friend we have in Latin America .
% argument 93 corresponds to the sentence I think I should prefer to answer it in this way , the only responsible way . As President Eisenhower has indicated time and time again , the United States can not tolerate Russian influence or a Russian-dominated government in Cuba or in the Americas . Now the President has made that clear .
% argument 94 corresponds to the sentence He now agrees with the President on the summit conference - he does n't believe he could have apologized . He now agrees with the President on Cuba - he did n't mean Federal intervention in Cuba . But , my friends , remember this : I 've been in the Office of the President when he 's made great decisions .
% argument 95 corresponds to the sentence This was too little and too late . He said the Government of the United States should support the anti-Castro forces in and out of Cuba - and again I quote him exactly - and again he was wrong and the President was right , because what my opponent would have done would have violated five treaties . It caused dismay and concern among our allies throughout the world .
% argument 96 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon 's new Cuba policy is too little and too late . After doing nothing for 6 years while the conditions that give rise to communism grew - after ignoring the repeated warning of our Ambassadors that the Communists were about to take over Cuba - after standing helplessly by while the Russians established a new satellite only 90 miles from American shores - Mr. Nixon and the Republicans , after 2 years of inaction since Castro took power , now attempt to make up for this incredible history of blunder , inaction , retreat and failure , by cutting off several million dollars worth of exports in a move which will have virtually no effect by itself in removing Communist rule from Cuba . In cutting off a carefully limited number of the American goods which can be sent to Cuba Mr. Nixon has made a dramatic but almost empty gesture - a gesture which will have so little impact on Castro as to be almost meaningless .
% argument 97 corresponds to the sentence This is certainly the record with regard to the speeches you have been making in the past 45 hours on Cuba . I have never advocated and I do not now advocate intervention in Cuba in violation of our treaty obligations and in fact stated in Johnstown , Pa . , that whatever we did with regard to Cuba should be within the confines of international law .
% argument 98 corresponds to the sentence Only if we are strong as a nation - strong economically , strong militarily , strong educationally , strong in heart and purpose - can we assure our peace and security in an age where our enemies are overtaking us in missile power , are far surpassing us in broadcasts abroad , have penetrated for the first time into the Middle East and Africa , have outshone our efforts in science and space , and have rolled the Iron Curtain to 90 miles from our shores onto the once friendly island of Cuba . Mr. Nixon has n't mentioned Cuba very prominently in this campaign . He talks about standing firm in Berlin , standing firm in the Far East , standing up to Khrushchev , but he never mentions standing firm in Cuba - and if you ca n't stand up to Castro , how can you be expected to stand up to Khrushchev ? Earlier this month , I reviewed the sorry story of how under our very noses , and in part as the result of our own policies - Cuba had moved from a position of good neighbor to a position of bitter enemy .
% argument 99 corresponds to the sentence I say in that connection that with all the criticism of President Eisenhower 's administration , they ca n't take away the solid fact that under his leadership we got the United States out of one war ; we 've kept her out of other wars , and we do have peace without surrender today . Yes , there are problems , problems like the one in Cuba that my opponent is discussing tonight without offering any solution for , and , incidentally , may I say , looking at that problem , I will have more to say about that at a later time , and he had better look to the record of his administration before he starts criticizing ours in that field . He talks about dictators , and I can only say that the number of dictators we inherited from the Truman administration is far greater than the number we have today in Latin America , and that 's something he must remember .
% argument 100 corresponds to the sentence A major portion of the blame , I say , will rest on Mr. Kennedy , who two weeks before an election has made a statement which not only is provocative , but will be interpreted by the Soviets as an express invitation to do exactly that . And if they do come in you know what the result is ? It can only mean a civil war in Cuba , which the United States would not avoid entering , and this result could easily be spread into a conflict , into a world war , that every American of both parties wants to avoid ; and I say that Senator Kennedy owes it to the Nation to put the cause of peace and freedom before political consideration and to retract this immature , rash , and dangerous suggestion that he has made . Now , some of you who heard the debate , though , will remember that he said :  But , after all , this is nothing new ,  that we helped , he said , the Castro forces get arms and ammunition in the United States when they were supporting their revolution against Batista .
% argument 101 corresponds to the sentence He 's changed his mind about Cuba . He really did n't mean intervention in Cuba .  Let me tell , you this : I have heard the President of the United States make decisions .
% argument 102 corresponds to the sentence 2. It would , as we have seen from the immediate response of shock and dismay in Latin America , alienate every one of our sister American Republics whose friendship you have acknowledged is of vital importance to our efforts against communism . 3. It would give Mr. Khrushchev a valid excuse to intervene in Cuba on the side of the Castro government , saying that the United States had intervened in violation of its treaty obligations in trying to overthrow the existing government . 4. If this happened , your policy could lead to World War III .
% argument 103 corresponds to the sentence We have heard many general claims and boasts ; we have heard how we are first in every area of competition : we have heard how we must be firm ; how we must stand up to Khrushchev ; how we must be united . But no amount of oratory , no extravagant claims or vociferous braggadocio , no unjustified charges , can hide the harsh fact that behind the rhetoric , behind the soothing words and the confusing figures , American strength relative to that of the Soviet Union has been slipping , and communism has been advancing steadily in every area of the world , until the Iron Curtain now rests on the island of Cuba , only 90 miles away . The implacable Communist drive for world domination , which now penetrates every continent and every section of the world , takes many forms ; and the battle against communism is fought on many fronts .
% argument 104 corresponds to the sentence I think the American people are ready to face the facts and pay the cost - as this convention resolution has demonstrated . I think the American people have been shocked by the turn of events - by sputnik and the Suez , by Cuba and the Congo , by the collapse of the summit and the riots in Japan . And I do not believe they regard the statement of our needs - in your resolution or my address - as either defeatist or disloyal .
% argument 105 corresponds to the sentence Oh , the problems are great . In Cuba , in the Congo , in the Near East , all over the world , there are problems with which we are confronted and we will continue to be confronted with them in the years ahead . But the opportunities are even greater .
% argument 106 corresponds to the sentence They feel we were correct , I think , the majority of them , in acting as we did with regard to the sugar , the taking away of special consideration that we had with regard to sugar . They thought that was justified in view of the Cuban Government 's expropriation of much of our property , but I think our present course in Cuba has not lost us friends in Latin America . If anything , it has gained us friends .
% argument 107 corresponds to the sentence Now , before we go into this question , many people will say ,  But , Mr. Nixon , are you for Castro ? Do n't you think we ought to support the people that are against him ?  The question is not whether you 're for or against Castro . The question is : What do you do ? What can you properly do ? What can the great United States of America legally and properly do to help the people of Cuba get the kind of government they deserve ? And this is n't easy . It is n't the easy shooting-from-the-hip way that Senator Kennedy has suggested .
% argument 108 corresponds to the sentence And for those who talk about our prestige , does Mr. Khrushchev gain in prestige because he breaks up a conference , a conference that is designed to alleviate tensions ? And does President Eisenhower lose prestige for America because he maintains dignity and say I will go an extra mile ? Of course not . Talk about the situation , for example , in Cuba . Does Mr. Khrushchev gain prestige because he shoots down hundreds of thousands of people in the streets of Budapest in Hungary ? And does President Eisenhower lose prestige for America because he does not use our great power as he could against Mr. Castro in Cuba and the Cuban people ? But he works with other American States in developing the opinions which will keep the Cuban people on our side when eventually they get the right to choose the kind of government they want to .
% argument 109 corresponds to the sentence It is true , as you stated in your telegram , that I said that I intended to talk about Quemoy and Matsu every day for the final 3 weeks of the campaign . When I said that I had no idea that you would make even a greater blunder about Cuba . Consequently , I will talk about not only Quemoy and Matsu but also about Cuba every day during the next 2 weeks - I will do this because I am deeply concerned about the policies you advocate in those two areas of the world which might well lead to abandoning free territory in the Far East , and a loss of all of our Latin American allies in this hemisphere or worse .
% argument 110 corresponds to the sentence When I said that I had no idea that you would make even a greater blunder about Cuba . Consequently , I will talk about not only Quemoy and Matsu but also about Cuba every day during the next 2 weeks - I will do this because I am deeply concerned about the policies you advocate in those two areas of the world which might well lead to abandoning free territory in the Far East , and a loss of all of our Latin American allies in this hemisphere or worse . The United States in these critical times can not risk a President who makes mistakes of this magnitude .
% argument 111 corresponds to the sentence I think the struggle will be , really , to prevent the spread of Castroism throughout all of South America . Cuba really is an isolated island . The great problem that we face as citizens of this hemisphere is to prevent other countries from following that example .
% argument 112 corresponds to the sentence And only a stronger America can hope to maintain its freedom and the freedom of the world . We are faced with an enemy which now commands a vast empire from the Formosa Straits to Berlin - an enemy whose agents of subversion are penetrating into Africa , into Asia , and now stand only 90 miles from our shores in Cuba - an enemy which is convinced of its ultimate victory - which believes , to quote Mr. Khrushchev ,  that the old and the rotten will always fight with the newly emerged , but it is a law of history that the new will always win .  But it is freedom that is new , and despotism and tyranny that is as old as civilization is - and it is freedom that will win - not because of any law of history - but because we will have the strength and the determination that will bring the victory .
% argument 113 corresponds to the sentence In every one of these three instances , do you see what would have happened if he had been President ? In Quemoy and Matsu , it might have meant war or it might have meant surrender . In Cuba , it might have meant war , by inviting the Communists in - civil war , which we could n't stay out of . And in Paris - the U-2 flights - it would have meant certainly surrender of principle , and it would have encouraged Mr. Khrushchev to beat him to a pulp , because that 's the only thing he understands .
% argument 114 corresponds to the sentence And this would not have happened in Cuba if the Republican leadership Mr. Nixon represents every step which foresight and experience should have directed them to take - in order to prevent a Communist victory only 90 miles from our shores . I do not know how Mr. Nixon can talk of firmness in view of his party 's record in Cuba . I do not know how he can talk of experience in view of his party 's experience in Cuba .
arg(a59).
arg(a114).
arg(a81).
arg(a71).
arg(a31).
arg(a29).
arg(a85).
arg(a57).
arg(a67).
arg(a91).
arg(a84).
arg(a53).
arg(a19).
arg(a55).
arg(a73).
arg(a38).
arg(a48).
arg(a98).
arg(a110).
arg(a82).
arg(a24).
arg(a42).
arg(a33).
arg(a65).
arg(a66).
arg(a21).
arg(a34).
arg(a5).
arg(a13).
arg(a108).
arg(a95).
arg(a93).
arg(a113).
arg(a86).
arg(a12).
arg(a47).
arg(a14).
arg(a22).
arg(a90).
arg(a28).
arg(a18).
arg(a77).
arg(a25).
arg(a32).
arg(a94).
arg(a62).
arg(a89).
arg(a40).
arg(a109).
arg(a36).
arg(a103).
arg(a60).
arg(a70).
arg(a44).
arg(a17).
arg(a76).
arg(a1).
arg(a51).
arg(a112).
arg(a52).
arg(a87).
arg(a58).
arg(a41).
arg(a72).
arg(a11).
arg(a64).
arg(a10).
arg(a27).
arg(a20).
arg(a49).
arg(a37).
arg(a61).
arg(a102).
arg(a4).
arg(a75).
arg(a2).
arg(a45).
arg(a63).
arg(a106).
arg(a54).
arg(a39).
arg(a8).
arg(a78).
arg(a83).
arg(a107).
arg(a16).
arg(a92).
arg(a79).
arg(a100).
arg(a97).
arg(a80).
arg(a69).
arg(a105).
arg(a99).
arg(a7).
arg(a26).
arg(a6).
arg(a9).
arg(a23).
arg(a96).
arg(a3).
arg(a68).
arg(a46).
arg(a111).
arg(a104).
arg(a35).
arg(a15).
arg(a50).
arg(a56).
arg(a101).
arg(a30).
arg(a43).
arg(a88).
arg(a74).
att(a59, a8).
sup(a114, a41).
sup(a81, a110).
att(a29, a18).
sup(a29, a32).
sup(a85, a110).
sup(a57, a101).
sup(a67, a46).
sup(a67, a66).
sup(a53, a61).
sup(a19, a14).
sup(a73, a39).
sup(a38, a79).
sup(a98, a82).
att(a24, a107).
att(a24, a100).
att(a66, a71).
sup(a13, a45).
att(a95, a62).
sup(a93, a79).
sup(a86, a46).
sup(a86, a114).
att(a47, a51).
att(a47, a35).
att(a90, a2).
att(a90, a11).
sup(a28, a105).
att(a25, a8).
att(a25, a22).
sup(a32, a52).
sup(a94, a87).
sup(a89, a56).
sup(a40, a46).
att(a109, a37).
att(a36, a33).
sup(a36, a50).
sup(a103, a49).
att(a44, a11).
sup(a44, a92).
sup(a17, a93).
sup(a1, a43).
sup(a112, a70).
att(a52, a64).
sup(a87, a65).
att(a58, a5).
sup(a72, a42).
att(a64, a113).
att(a10, a7).
sup(a10, a102).
att(a27, a31).
sup(a27, a110).
sup(a20, a15).
att(a102, a111).
att(a102, a44).
att(a4, a76).
att(a75, a48).
att(a63, a76).
sup(a63, a106).
att(a54, a55).
att(a39, a48).
sup(a83, a3).
att(a16, a107).
att(a97, a2).
att(a80, a2).
sup(a69, a12).
att(a99, a34).
att(a99, a88).
att(a99, a74).
att(a99, a60).
sup(a26, a4).
att(a6, a78).
sup(a6, a77).
sup(a23, a91).
sup(a68, a84).
sup(a104, a21).
att(a15, a9).
att(a15, a96).
att(a30, a108).
