% argument 1 corresponds to the sentence Fact : In 1938 , when the first bill was passed , the Republicans voted against it 48 to 31 in the House and 13 to 2 in the Senate . Fact : When the minimum wage was raised from 40 cents to 75 cents an hour , every Republican on the House Labor Committee opposed it and the Republicans in the House voted 143 to 12 to take away minimum wage protection from 1 million workers who were covered . Fact : In 1960 , the attempt to raise the minimum wage to $ 1.25 an hour was defeated in the House when Republicans voted 119 to 27 against it .
% argument 2 corresponds to the sentence I think it is time that this Nation faced up to the agricultural revolution which has brought us so much abundance - that we forget about reshuffling the Benson program , as Mr. Nixon proposed , which will only bring us more farm surpluses and more farm foreclosures - and concentrate instead on a program of supply management which will give to each farmer his full parity of income . I have confidence in an America able to afford the best schools and the best teachers in the world - an America where no one is denied his full constitutional rights by reason of his race or religion - an America where every family lives in a decent home in a decent neighborhood - an America where the cost of living is not completely beyond those who work for a living - particularly those receiving an inadequate minimum wage of $ 1 an hour . I have confidence that America is capable of operating at full capacity - that we could consume in new schools and hospitals and dams and highways the full output of our steel mills now operating at only half their capacity .
% argument 3 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon represents a party which has opposed progress - for many years . He represents a party which voted 90 percent against a 25-cent minimum wage in the midthirties , and voted 90 percent against $ 1.25 minimum wage in 1960 . He represents a party which has opposed the strengthening of our educational system , which has opposed medical care for our older citizens tied to social security , which has brought recession in 1954 , again in 1958 , and has brought us to an economic slowdown in the vital year of 1960 .
% argument 4 corresponds to the sentence To strengthen our country from within , he promises to move the Federal Government into the very heart of your school system by providing Federal dollars for use to pay the salaries of your teachers , which would inevitably bring Federal control of what is taught . To assure a vital economy , he promises a minimum wage that official studies show would force unemployment and business failures . To protect the unfortunate , he promises to give the wealthiest people in American a helping hand with medical costs in their later years , while withholding help from some 3 million people with incomes of $ 2,000 or less ; in fact , in the name of freedom he would force this medical program on one and all , save the 3 million who need help the most .
% argument 5 corresponds to the sentence The point is that we pay for that . Every time the President vetoes a housing bill , every time a Republican Member votes against the $ 1.25 minimum wage , every time we are unable to get any support on our bill to tie medical care for the aged to social security , it is not the Congress that suffers , it is not the administration ; it is the people of the United States who require , in my opinion , a progressive , forward-looking government if this country is going to move forward . It is no accident that 400,000 people in a rich State like Pennsylvania wait every month for surplus food packages from the Federal Government .
% argument 6 corresponds to the sentence Anybody who says that there is nothing left for us to do has not read the paper , does n't know what is left for the United States to do in its unfinished business here at home . As long as this administration refuses to pass a minimum wage of $ 1.25 an hour , as long as this administration vetoes housing bills , as long as this administration refuses to pass legislation for medical care for our older citizens , as long as there is not equality of opportunity for all Americans regardless of their race or their religion , there is unfinished business for our generation . I stand here where Harry Truman stood and Franklin Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson in this century .
% argument 7 corresponds to the sentence The Republican program in education , unlike Mr. Kennedy 's would provide funds for school construction which would enable State and local districts to use their money for raising teachers salaries , without involving the Government in the direct payment of teachers salaries which would lead toward dictation from Washington as to what is taught in our schools to our children . It is a matter of record that Republicans have extended social security and strengthened minimum wage legislation . Moreover , we care too much for people to advocate programs , as my opponent does , which would raise Federal spending by over $ 15 billion a year - programs so great they could be paid for , not out of miracles of economic growth , but by 180 million Americans in higher taxes and higher prices .
% argument 8 corresponds to the sentence a132
% argument 9 corresponds to the sentence It is our function , however , not to merely invoke the names of Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman , not to merely live off what they did , but to bring these old programs up to date . Franklin Roosevelt proposed a 25-cent minimum wage , back in the middle thirties ; 90 percent of the Republicans voted against it . We proposed this summer a minimum wage of $ 1.25 and 90 percent of the Members of the House of Representatives voted against it .
% argument 10 corresponds to the sentence The first is the difference which is suggested by their record of the past . The fact of the matter is that the Republican Party has opposed every single piece of new , progressive legislation of benefit to the people in the last 25 years , social security [ applause ] social security , housing , minimum wage [ response from the audience ] civil rights . In 1953 and 1954 the Republicans controlled the administration , the House and the Senate .
% argument 11 corresponds to the sentence I do not believe in leap year progressivism , every 4 years at election time . I believe that day in and day out the record is written , and Mr. Nixon leads a political party that in the midthirties voted 95 percent against a 25-cent minimum wage , and he leads that same party that in August of this year voted 90 percent in the House of Representatives against $ 1.25 minimum wage . [ Applause .
% argument 12 corresponds to the sentence I want to make it clear that this is a contest between two candidates and two political parties who disagree on what is needed to be done to make our country strong . The Democratic Party and I believe in a minimum wage of $ 1.25 . We believe in urban renewal and better housing .
% argument 13 corresponds to the sentence Behind that sign up there [ laughter ] - behind that sign I hear that there is a slogan  Experience counts .  Well , if you want experience which consists of opposition to basic programs , programs of $ 1.25 minimum wage , programs of housing , programs of industrial growth , programs of strength , programs of peace , then experience does count . I have been in the Congress for 14 years .
% argument 14 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon said that on the debate a week ago . That is the same party that voted 90 percent against 25 cents minimum wage . I do n't lead a party which voted 90 percent against social security , which ran a presidential candidate , Alf Landon , in 1936 , calling for the repeal of social security , and yet that is the same party in 1960 that voted against medical care for the aged .
% argument 15 corresponds to the sentence On television this afternoon he repeated one of the oldest , tiredest stories of the Republicans , that $ 1.25 minimum wage would cause massive unemployment . That is the same old story that they used to tell in the thirties when the Democrats and Franklin Roosevelt first wrote in a minimum wage of 25 cents an hour . That was going to ruin business [ response from the audience ] , $ 1.25 an hour , $ 50 a week , for a business which does $ 1 million , and it ca n't be until 1963 , and that is going to ruin , that is going to cause starvation .
% argument 16 corresponds to the sentence It is the kind of problem that is difficult of solution , but it is the kind of problem that the Republicans never think about . They have never concerned themselves in the last 25 years with the problems of employment , of social security , of housing , of minimum wage , of social justice , of equality of treatment , of aid to education , of a stronger better America , to which we are committed . So I come here to Pennsylvania a State which has not gone Democratic in a presidential election for 20 years , and I come here and ask your belp in this campaign .
% argument 17 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon says that is extreme . Minimum wage , housing , education , strengthening the United States - that is our program and I would like your help in it . Thank you .
% argument 18 corresponds to the sentence Social security ? The Republicans voted 90 percent against social security in the mid-thirties and voted 99 percent against medical care for the aged tied to social security in 1960 . The Republicans voted 90 percent against a 25-cent minimum wage in the mid-thirties and voted 90 percent against the $ 1.25 minimum wage in 1960 . If you think that party is committed to progress , then Mr. Nixon is your man .
% argument 19 corresponds to the sentence To pass them by - to water down the help they need - or merely assume that prosperity at the top will someday reach them - shocks the conscience of those who care . The increases in purchasing power resulting from a higher minimum wage will help to restore consumer demand required to put our idle industrial capacity back to work . The elimination of unfair competition based upon substandard wages will protect fairminded employers anxious to maintain fair labor standards .
% argument 20 corresponds to the sentence Through a program of plant modernization , full use of valuable weapons against excessive imports , and expansion of markets through research , the highly developed skills that made our textile industry great can once again lead the way to greatness . Third , we must work to establish decent , adequate and fair national standards of unemployment compensation and minimum wages . The raising of the minimum wage and its extension to cover millions of unprotected American workers must be one of the first items on the agenda of the next administration .
% argument 21 corresponds to the sentence a66
% argument 22 corresponds to the sentence I want to make it very clear that the differences between Mr. Nixon and myself , the differences between the Republican Party and the Democratic Party are clear . Mr. Nixon represents a party , a philosophy which he believes in , which voted against social security and minimum wage and housing and unemployment compensation . The fact of the matter is that the Republican Party controlled the Congress and the Presidency for years and no civil rights bill ever saw the light of day .
% argument 23 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon leads a party which in 1935 voted 99 percent against the 25-cent minimum wage . And Mr. Nixon last week said $ 1.25 minimum wage is inflationary . I would like to see any American get along who lives in political life , from the President , Vice President , to the two candidates , on $ 1.25 an hour .
% argument 24 corresponds to the sentence No. I think we had to come back . I think it would have been a much bigger mistake for us to say that we were not going to do anything about these matters , and that we were going to adjourn and not do anything about some of the appropriation bills , the Antarctic Treaty , education , housing , minimum wage , and care of the aged , that we were not going to try . We did not do as well as I thought we should have done .
% argument 25 corresponds to the sentence a23
% argument 26 corresponds to the sentence A majority of them opposed $ 1.25 minimum wage by 1964 . Now , what is true of the minimum wage is true of agricultural programs . We are going to hear more commitments to more social welfare programs in the next 3 months , but in the final analysis when they come to the vote , and when they come for the President 's signature , they are going to be opposed .
% argument 27 corresponds to the sentence I do not . I stand here tonight not saying that there are new and easy solutions to the problems which disturb our tranquillity , but I can tell you that I am a member of a party which has believed in progress , and I run against a party which has opposed every single piece of progressive legislation which this country has tried to pass in the last 25 years , minimum wage , social security , housing , housing for the aged , and all the rest . The Republican Party has said no , and we have said yes , and we are going to say yes on November 8. [ Applause .
% argument 28 corresponds to the sentence I would like to ask Mr. Nixon one single piece of new , progressive legislation , benefiting the people that the Republicans have put forward in the last 25 years . Ninety percent of the Republican Party in 1935 voted against the minimum wage of 25 cents an hour , and 80 percent of them voted against $ 1.25 in 1960 . The fact of the matter is that this State and the United States can not sit still in the 1960 's .
% argument 29 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon made a speech 3 weeks ago about what we need to do in housing , and he said in that speech the Housing Act of 1949 works very well , that is the basic housing act . Do you know he voted against it as a Congressman ? He leads a party that voted 90 percent against a 25-cent minimum wage in the midthirties and votes 90 percent against $ 1.25 in 1960 . He leads a party that voted 90 percent against social security in the midthirties and voted 90 percent against the medical care for the aged tied to social security .
% argument 30 corresponds to the sentence I do n't take his view about [ applause ] - I do n't say that $ 1.25 minimum wage is extreme . I do n't lead a party that voted nearly unanimously against 25 cents minimum wage . I do n't go around saying 4.5 million Americans unemployed is insignificant , is necessary .
% argument 31 corresponds to the sentence a14
% argument 32 corresponds to the sentence Put your thumb down regardless of what you do . We are fighting a candidate , the Republican Party , that for 20 years has opposed what the people need , minimum wage , housing , unemployment compensation . The real issue is which party and which candidate can best strengthen the United States , can best serve the public interest .
% argument 33 corresponds to the sentence The principles for which Dwight Eisenhower and I have fought and will continue to fight are the ideals not only of Republicans but of Democrats as well . All through the campaign my opponent has been trumpeting the falsehood that I , in effect , feast on human misery - that I oppose minimum wage , help to distressed areas , social security , medical care for the aged , and all else that concerns the good of the American people . Last week Mr. Kennedy called me the leader of the social security wrecking crew - trying to secure votes from the aged by playing on their fears .
% argument 34 corresponds to the sentence And this administration says , when we try to provide aid to education , when we try to provide medical care for the aged , it is too extreme . When we try to pass $ 1.25 minimum wage , per hour , $ 50 a week [ applause ] $ 50 a week , Mr. Nixon says it is extreme . Mr. Nixon represents the same party that in the midthirties voted 90 percent against social security , 90 percent against the minimum wage of 25 cents an hour , and in 1960 voted 90 percent against the $ 1.25 minimum wage , and medical care for the aged tied to social security .
% argument 35 corresponds to the sentence Nor can we permit economic stagnation to continue in distressed areas . The administration has played politics with this issue - as well as with the minimum wage , health care for the aged , school construction , and housing programs . Every worker would do well to remember that the administration twice vetoed area redevelopment bills only to issue later pious protestations of concern and calls for action by Congress .
% argument 36 corresponds to the sentence One , I believe , is the responsibility of all of us , those of us who serve in the Congress , those of us who may serve in the Presidency or in the executive branch , to bring up to date , to make modern , those programs which have been part of our political life , part of our national life , for 20 or 25 or 30 years . In other words , to pass a minimum wage bill which brings wages up to date . The first minimum wage bill in 1935 was 25 cents an hour .
% argument 37 corresponds to the sentence [ Response from the audience . ] Mr. Nixon leads a party which , in the midthirties , voted 95 percent against a 25-cent minimum wage , and he leads a party which in 1960 voted 95 percent against $ 1.25 minimum wage . [ Response from the audience .
% argument 38 corresponds to the sentence a135
% argument 39 corresponds to the sentence Not one Republican on the Rules Committee would vote with us . No.2, we went to conference between the House and the Senate on minimum wage . Six out of seven Republicans on that conference voted against that not only the $ 1.25 minimum wage , but also against the President 's own program which we finally offered as a compromise .
% argument 40 corresponds to the sentence Senators are paid much more than that , and so are Vice Presidents . But Mr. Nixon stated that he regarded $ 1.25 minimum wage for those businesses making more than $ 1 million in interstate commerce as  extreme .  He regarded a bill which passed the U.S. Senate , aid to education , he regarded that bill , and I quote him again , as  extreme .
% argument 41 corresponds to the sentence Previous to the convention we had passed housing , aid to education . After the convention , we did pass a minimum wage bill of $ 1.25 in the Senate . We failed by five votes on medical care for the aged tied to social security .
% argument 42 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon says it does n't really make much difference which party you belong to . I am not going to let him run away from the Republican record on social security , minimum wage , housing , civil rights , and the rest . [ Applause .
% argument 43 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] I do n't believe that this city and the State of Ohio wants for a President of the United States in 1961 , a man who thinks a minimum wage of $ 1.25 an hour for someone working in interstate commerce is extreme . I do n't believe that anyone who believes in Federal aid to education , and to make sure that our teachers are well compensated - anyone who believes that that is extreme , I do n't believe the American people are going to endorse that leadership .
% argument 44 corresponds to the sentence  But his voting record as Congressman , Senator , and Vice President has been consistently antilabor . He says he supports the minimum wage - but as a Congressman he voted to eliminate from its protection a million workers already covered : and as Vice President he opposed our efforts to expand coverage and raise the minimum to $ 1.25 an hour . He makes campaign promises to help our distressed areas and our unemployed workers - but as Vice President he has consistently opposed our party 's efforts , sparked by Senator Douglas , to get such measures enacted .
% argument 45 corresponds to the sentence In the case of the minimum wage , we passed out of the Senate by a vote of nearly 2 to 1. That was the $ 1.25 minimum wage . Earlier , the House of Representatives passed a bill by , I think , nine votes against the $ 1.25 minimum wage , in favor of a wholly inadequate coverage under minimum wage which affected only about 1 million people . Nine more votes or a shift of five votes would have given us $ 1.25 in the House , and we would have then passed a bill for $ 1.25 and the President would have vetoed it , and we would not have been able to secure sufficient votes to override his veto .
% argument 46 corresponds to the sentence I wonder if he is going to be smiling November 9 ? [ Response from the audience . ] The fact of the matter is , as Congressman Flood knows , that the party that voted 90 percent against the $ 1.25 minimum wage voted 90 percent in the midthirties against 25 cents . The party that voted against medical care for the aged , 90 percent in 1960 , voted 90 percent against the social security in the midthirties .
% argument 47 corresponds to the sentence We have said the same thing in every section of the country .  Do you stand by this statement in light of the varying statements both you and your running mate have made on question of appointing a Negro to the cabinet , for example ? 8. Why do you repeat the Communist argument that unemployment was eliminated in the United States only when we have had a war economy , when the fact is that unemployment during the Truman administration averaged about a million less than during the administration even though the level of defense expenditures - including the Korean war - was lower than it has been during the present administration ? 9. Why have you stated that I support a minimum wage which  official studies show would force unemployment and business failures  when there are no such studies , just administration assertion that this might happen - assertions like those made by Republicans every time an increase in the minimum wage is proposed ? 10 . Why do you blame the present huge agricultural surpluses on the policies your party inherited , when the fact is that at the end of the Truman administration total farm surpluses were valued at $ 2.5 billion , while the present value is $ 8.5 billion ? I have received today a report from Mayor Richard C. Lee , of New Haven , Conn .
% argument 48 corresponds to the sentence And it was extreme for Mr. Nixon . For he had previously voted to completely remove 1 million workers from the protection of the minimum wage laws and he is the candidate of a party which opposed the first 25-cent-an-hour minimum wage and which has fought against every increase since . 2. The job-price squeeze has also frustrated the ambitions of millions of Americans to buy their own homes .
% argument 49 corresponds to the sentence The bill has two major purposes . First , it will raise the minimum wage now received by 2 1/2 million workers from $ 1.10 to $ 1.25 an hour . Second , it will extend the protection of the Fair Labor Standards Act to 5 million additional employees , chiefly in large-scale interstate retail and service industries , thereby guaranteeing these employees a fair minimum wage and a just premium for overtime .
% argument 50 corresponds to the sentence Woodrow Wilson , running in 1912 , said that the Republican Party idea of policy is to sit on the lid . Franklin Roosevelt carried the fight in 1932 and 1936 and Harry Truman carried the fight in 1948 , and on the issues which matter , housing , social security , medical care for the aged minimum wage , development of the resources of this country , I believe the Democratic Party looks forward . I believe it has presented to this country programs which move the economy of this country .
% argument 51 corresponds to the sentence In the midthirties , 90 percent of the Republican Party voted against a 25-cent minimum wage . This summer , as your Congressman can tell you , in the House of Representatives , 90 percent of the Republicans voted against a minimum wage of $ 1.25 an hour , $ 50 a week for a 40-hour week , for a business that makes more than a million dollars a year , and Mr. Nixon called it extreme . He is frozen in the ice of his own indifference if I ever saw a Republican candidate who was .
% argument 52 corresponds to the sentence I think the August session of the Congress offered in my opinion a very clear example of how unfortunate it would be to have 4 more years of a divided government with neither party bearing responsibility and both parties sharing power . After passing in the U.S. Senate a bill providing for $ l.25 minimum wage , we failed in the conference to secure the passage of that bill . After passing in the Senate of the United States a bill for aid for education , and a bill for aid for housing , we failed to get both of those bills to the floor of the House of Representatives for a vote , and every Republican member of the Rules Committee of the House voted against them going to the floor of the House of Representatives .
% argument 53 corresponds to the sentence Now , let 's look very practically at what happened in the last session of the Congress - this so-called Kennedy - Johnson session . They had a minimum wage bill in that session of the Congress . They rejected this bill , which could have passed , and they tried of course to get through a bill which would have extended coverage to more people and which would have raised the minimum to $ 1.15 this year and to $ 1.25 next year .
% argument 54 corresponds to the sentence It is our responsibility to bring those programs , extension of the right to vote , civil rights , minimum wage , housing , education , to increase the opportunity for all Americans to share in the abundance . And I do not share the view of the Vice President that these programs are extreme ; $ 1.25 minimum wage , not this year , not until 1962 , for those people already covered , not until 1964 for the newly covered , and still that bill was voted against by 75 to 80 percent of the Members of the House of Representatives who are Republicans . Now , I believe the issue is quite clear in this field of social legislation .
% argument 55 corresponds to the sentence We are going to have , by the middle of November , 1 million unsold cars , the highest inventory of unsold cars in the history of the United States . Now , anyone who believes that under those conditions we should continue that kind of leadership , that supports leadership that twice , not once , but twice vetoed the area redevelopment bill , sponsored by your Congressman , Dan Flood , and your Senator , Joe Clark - anyone that believes that a minimum wage of $ 1.25 is extreme , Mr. Nixon is your man . But anyone who believes as I do that this country will never be strong in the world , that we will never be successful in turning Mr. Khrushchev back , we will never be successful in expanding freedom around the world unless we have in this country a strong and vital and progressive society , and that is what we are committed to , that is what we are committed to , and I believe the American people on November 8 , faced with a choice of a leadership that looks to the past and the present , and recognizing that this country , the only hope of freedom that there is , we are the only sentinel at the gate , and if we do n't move ahead , if we do n't provide employment for our people , if we do n't use our facilities to the fullest , if we do n't educate our children and provide under social security medical care for our aged and jobs for those in between , then the United States , instead of being the leader of the free world , will cease to count as the only hope of freedom .
% argument 56 corresponds to the sentence Four-fifths of the Republicans in the House of Representatives , including the Congressman of this district , who is chairman of the congressional committee for all Republicans , voted against the $ 1.25 minimum wage for a 40-hour week , not for a business which is only ten , fifteen , or twenty-five thousand dollars a year , but for a business which makes more than $ 1 million a year , we wanted to pay them $ 1.25 by 1962 , not this year , but 1962 , and to pay those that were not covered by 1964 $ 1.25 , and four-fifths of the Republicans voted against it . I think these issues are important , not because the minimum wage is maybe the most important issue in the United States today , and not because medical care for the aged itself may be the most important issue , and not because aid to education itself may be the most important issue . I think the most important issue is the security of the United States and the peace of the world .
% argument 57 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] The same party that opposed 25 cents for a minimum wage in the mid-thirties opposes unanimously , pretty nearly , in the House , $ 1.25 in 1960 . The same party , the Republicans , who opposed social security in the mid-thirties , opposed medical care for the aged .
% argument 58 corresponds to the sentence I believe that we can divide , generally , the responsibilities which we will meet in the sixties into two categories . The first of those is to attempt to bring up to date those pieces of social legislation passed in the 1930 's which still have great significance in the lives of our citizens today , and , therefore , while Franklin Roosevelt could propose in 1935 a 25-cent minimum wage , we proposed in 1960 a $ 1.25 minimum wage . Where Franklin Roosevelt proposed social security in 1935 , we propose in 1960 medical care for the aged tied to social security .
% argument 59 corresponds to the sentence Yet the average wage for laundry women in five large cities of the United States is 64 cents an hour , and for a 48-hour week . I believe in $ 1.25 minimum wage , and I think the next Congress should pass it . [ Applause .
% argument 60 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] If you can tell me after 14 years in the Congress , if you can tell me one single piece of original progressive legislation for the benefit of the people sponsored by either Mr. Nixon or the Republican leadership - can you tell me one ? Minimum wage ? [ Response from the audience . ] Social security ? [ Response from the audience .
% argument 61 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] In the debate 2 or 3 weeks ago , Mr. Nixon stated that he thought $ 1.25 minimum wage was extreme . Do you know what the average wage for laundrywomen , and most of them are Negroes , in five large cities of the United States is ? Sixty-five cents an hour for a 48-hour week .
% argument 62 corresponds to the sentence a151
% argument 63 corresponds to the sentence It opposed progress under Franklin Roosevelt . Mr. Nixon leads a party that voted 90 percent in the 1930 's against a 25-cent minimum wage . He leads a party that voted 90 percent against $ 1.25 minimum wage in 1960 .
% argument 64 corresponds to the sentence Now , in the case of medical care for the aged , as I said in my statement , being tied to social security , which I thought was extremely important , as you know in the Senate we secured the support of only one Republican , and we were informed by the minority leader , Mr. Dirksen , when the matter came to a vote , that if we passed social security , it would be vetoed by the President . In the case of the $ 1.25 minimum wage , which was my bill , which we did pass in the Senate by a vote of 2 to 1 , we failed in the conference with the House , after Mr. Dirksen , the minority leader , announced that the President of the United States would veto any bill that had $ 1.25 minimum wage . There were two other bills that I thought of importance .
% argument 65 corresponds to the sentence The administration 's position is in between . We would extend coverage to approximately 3 million not presently covered , and the coverage which we would extend is to those particular businesses which operate interstate and which have larger gross incomes and , therefore , businesses that we think could , therefore , pay the minimum wage , not resulting in unemployment , which might result if such businesses covered by the broader coverage of the Kennedy bill were brought under the minimum wage . I think the administration bill is the proper approach , and within the Senate at the present time , where the legislation currently is lodged , I am pressing for adoption of the administration bill .
% argument 66 corresponds to the sentence  I think we can do better . As long as there are 15 million American families who live in substandard housing , as long as the average wage for laundrywomen in the five largest cities of this country is 65 cents for a 48-hour week , as long as there are nearly 17 million Americans who are not even covered by the dollar minimum wage , as long as 17 million Americans who are over 65 live on an average social security check of less than $ 78 a month , as long as there is unfinished business before our country , I think there is need for our party . [ Applause .
% argument 67 corresponds to the sentence You have the Kennedy bill , which would raise the minimum wage on a graduated basis to a dollar and a quarter in 3 years , and which would expand coverage to 5 million people not presently covered . You have the House bill , which would raise the minimum wage to $ 1.15 in 1 year , and which would expand coverage to a much lower number , approximately a million , net increase . It takes coverage away from some .
% argument 68 corresponds to the sentence For Mr. Nixon to say we ca n't afford to do more to clear our slums is downgrading America . The Republicans tell us our economy was never stronger ; then they tell us that a minimum wage of $ 1.25 an hour would break its back . Who can raise a family on $ 1.25 an hour , $ 50 a week ? For Mr. Nixon to say $ 1.25 an hour is  extreme ,  as he did , is underrating the great potential strength of the American economy .
% argument 69 corresponds to the sentence Fact : When the minimum wage was raised from 40 cents to 75 cents an hour , every Republican on the House Labor Committee opposed it and the Republicans in the House voted 143 to 12 to take away minimum wage protection from 1 million workers who were covered . Fact : In 1960 , the attempt to raise the minimum wage to $ 1.25 an hour was defeated in the House when Republicans voted 119 to 27 against it . In the Senate , the $ 1.25 minimum wage was opposed by the Republicans , 18 to 14 .
% argument 70 corresponds to the sentence The second bill that was up and which is an issue in this campaign was a bill to provide $ 1.25 minimum wage . Four-fifths of the Republicans in the House of Representatives , including the Congressman of this district , who is chairman of the congressional committee for all Republicans , voted against the $ 1.25 minimum wage for a 40-hour week , not for a business which is only ten , fifteen , or twenty-five thousand dollars a year , but for a business which makes more than $ 1 million a year , we wanted to pay them $ 1.25 by 1962 , not this year , but 1962 , and to pay those that were not covered by 1964 $ 1.25 , and four-fifths of the Republicans voted against it . I think these issues are important , not because the minimum wage is maybe the most important issue in the United States today , and not because medical care for the aged itself may be the most important issue , and not because aid to education itself may be the most important issue .
% argument 71 corresponds to the sentence First , those of you who are active in labor , those of you who lead organized labor movements , are concerned about the welfare of your people and concerned about the welfare of the general public , and you know very well , perhaps better than anyone , that this country still has unfinished business , that we have to maintain full employment , that we have to advance the standards of living of our people , of better housing , of better minimum wage , of medical care for the aged . Franklin Roosevelt could put forward a minimum wage of 25 cents an hour in 1935 , but that does not mean the job was finished . Ninety percent of the Republicans could vote against 25 cents an hour in 1935 just as they voted against $ 1.25 minimium wage in 1960 .
% argument 72 corresponds to the sentence a167
% argument 73 corresponds to the sentence These other Republicans refused to accept or work for the $ 1.25 minimum Senate bill or the much milder minimum wage legislation endorsed by President Eisenhower which was contained in the Prouty amendment . While I naturally wanted to see the Senate version of the minimum wage bill enacted into law , I and the colleagues supporting me were willing to accept a reasonable compromise . We supported the legislation recommended by the administration .
% argument 74 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] As long as there are 15 million American homes which are substandard , as long as there are millions of Americans who are not even paid a $ 1 minimum wage , as long as there are older people over the age of 65 who live on an average social-security check of less than $ 78 a month , as long as there are people around the world who wish to be free but are not free , as long as there are people around the world who are fighting to maintain their independence , as long as there are people who look to us for leadership , I believe we can serve . I believe the Democratic Party has a responsibility .
% argument 75 corresponds to the sentence a19
% argument 76 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] The Republican Party has never broken through new ground , has never stood for progress , has opposed step by step every piece of progressive legislation passed for the benefit of the people in the last 25 years , housing , social security , minimum wage , unemployment compensation - all of the things which make it possible for us to build a strong and vital society . I ask you to join us in 1960 .
% argument 77 corresponds to the sentence We only need a few more . A shift of four or five votes in the House last June would have enacted a real minimum wage bill , with coverage for several million more families and a minimum of $ 1.25 an hour . Next January we will have those votes - and you will have a President who knows what a strong minimum wage law means to stop runaway shops and to raise living standards .
% argument 78 corresponds to the sentence The administration supported an increase in the minimum wage in 1955 , and in 1957 urged legislation to extend minimum wage coverage to some 3 million additional workers , an extension which the Democratic-led Congress failed to approve . In 1960 , this administration sought to extend minimum wage coverage to 3.1 million additional workers and indicated support of an increase in the minimum wage to $ 1.15 per hour . The misstatement : In the first debate Senator Kennedy said that the Republican Party gives only  lipservice  to programs of medical care for the aged .
% argument 79 corresponds to the sentence Franklin Roosevelt proposed a 25-cent minimum wage , back in the middle thirties ; 90 percent of the Republicans voted against it . We proposed this summer a minimum wage of $ 1.25 and 90 percent of the Members of the House of Representatives voted against it . These are the traditional issues , old but still new , and I believe that the next President and the next Congress must meet their responsibilities in this field .
% argument 80 corresponds to the sentence 11 . Kennedy 's statement : The Republicans have consistently opposed minimum wage legislation . Fact : In 1938 , when the first bill was passed , the Republicans voted against it 48 to 31 in the House and 13 to 2 in the Senate .
% argument 81 corresponds to the sentence  But Mr. Nixon and the party he leads say they are content , just as they have always been content , in the face of poverty and unemployment and an America with its most urgent needs unmet . The Republican Party which Mr. Nixon leads today is the same Republican Party which for half a century has opposed every single progressive measure which the Democrats have designed to improve human welfare and reduce human misery - the party which fought against the New Deal and tried to block the Fair Deal - the party which , in the past 8 years , has vetoed aid to areas of unemployment , blocked efforts to improve unemployment compensation , opposed raising the minimum wage , refused to expand the distribution of surplus food to the hungry , and failed to offer one single program to increase the welfare of the American people . But Americans will not forget Mr. Nixon 's party this November - and they will return the Democrats to leadership so that all Americans can share in American abundance .
% argument 82 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon voted against it , every single time , and I voted for it . Minimum wage - I see some signs waved around by great supportcrs of Mr. Nixon . I want to ask them three questions .
% argument 83 corresponds to the sentence In short , the high cost of living hurts almost every American . But its hurts most of all those whom the Republican brand of prosperity has left far behind - the 4 million unemployed , whose jobless insurance check is too low to meet these costs - the 3 million put on a short work week because our growth has slowed down and our major industries ( such as steel and coal and textiles and autos ) are below capacity - the millions earning the bare minimum wage , $ 1 an hour , $ 40 a week - which can not possibly be enough at today 's prices - the millions on an inadequate social security check - the schoolteachers in need of Federal aid - millions of Americans caught in a squeeze of costs rising faster than income - millions of Americans asking for help . Finally , last year , the Republicans decided to do something bold .
% argument 84 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Franklin D. Roosevelt fought this same fight in the 1930 's , social security , minimum wage , housing , unemployment compensation , and fair opportunity . We fight it now in the sixties .
% argument 85 corresponds to the sentence Those are who are paid a substandard wage . In the midthirties , 90 percent of the Republican Party voted against a 25-cent minimum wage . This summer , as your Congressman can tell you , in the House of Representatives , 90 percent of the Republicans voted against a minimum wage of $ 1.25 an hour , $ 50 a week for a 40-hour week , for a business that makes more than a million dollars a year , and Mr. Nixon called it extreme .
% argument 86 corresponds to the sentence They stem from the administration of Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman . They are the efforts which Democratic Presidents and Democratic Congresses have made to write into law a whole platform of social legislation , which permits all Americans to participate in our standard of living , minimum wage , social security , unemployment compensation , housing , aid to education , medical care for the aged , all of the great litany of pieces of social legislation for which we are distinguished which make it easy for a Democratic candidate to run for the Presidency , and which Mr. Nixon 's party has opposed . It is our function , however , not to merely invoke the names of Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman , not to merely live off what they did , but to bring these old programs up to date .
% argument 87 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] When the vote comes in the House and Senate , as Adam Powell knows and Senator Lehman knows , who provides the majority of the votes on every issue , on civil rights , on housing , and minimum wage , sickness , health , good days and bad , who provides the majority of the votes , who offers the amendments , who tries to get them through ? A majority of the Democrats . And the record shows that the majority of those who oppose are Republicans and on all the issues .
% argument 88 corresponds to the sentence Let me say , briefly , I believe there are two points . First , those of you who are active in labor , those of you who lead organized labor movements , are concerned about the welfare of your people and concerned about the welfare of the general public , and you know very well , perhaps better than anyone , that this country still has unfinished business , that we have to maintain full employment , that we have to advance the standards of living of our people , of better housing , of better minimum wage , of medical care for the aged . Franklin Roosevelt could put forward a minimum wage of 25 cents an hour in 1935 , but that does not mean the job was finished .
% argument 89 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] As long as there are 15 million Americans who live in substandard housing , 5 million American families which lack plumbing of any kind who live in our cities , as long as 9 million of our older citizens receive an income of less than $ 20 a week , as long as there are millions of Americans who lack the protection of even an inadequate minimum wage of $ 1 , as long as there are millions of Americans who lack an opportunity to develop their full resources , as long as there are 100,000-odd families in the State of West Virginia receiving inadequate surplus food packages , so long as there is need for us to recognize there is unfinished business in our society , in our generation , in our day . [ Applause .
% argument 90 corresponds to the sentence No.2, we went to conference between the House and the Senate on minimum wage . Six out of seven Republicans on that conference voted against that not only the $ 1.25 minimum wage , but also against the President 's own program which we finally offered as a compromise . Six out of seven Democrats on the conference voted for the $ 1.25 minimum wage .
% argument 91 corresponds to the sentence I want to thank you very much . We fought in the last Congress for a bill to provide $ 1.25 minimum wage for restaurant employees , retail stores and all the rest . Mr. Nixon says it is extreme .
% argument 92 corresponds to the sentence Meanwhile , the contradictory statements of Senator Kennedy still leave him opposed to this position . The misstatement : In the second debate Senator Kennedy said : The Republicans in recent years , not only in the last 25 years , but in the last 8 years , have opposed * * * minimum wage * * The facts : Senator Kennedy is saying that Republicans who opposed his particular bill are against minimum wage . The administration supported an increase in the minimum wage in 1955 , and in 1957 urged legislation to extend minimum wage coverage to some 3 million additional workers , an extension which the Democratic-led Congress failed to approve .
% argument 93 corresponds to the sentence  But Mr. Nixon and the party he leads say they are content , just as they have always been content , in the face of poverty and unemployment and an America with its most urgent needs unmet . The Republican Party which Mr. Nixon leads today is the same Republican Party which for half a century has opposed every single progressive measure which the Democrats have designed to improve human welfare and reduce human misery - the party which fought against the New Deal and tried to block the Fair Deal - the party which , in the past 8 years has voted aid to areas of unemployment , blocked efforts to improve unemployment compensation , opposed raising the minimum wage , refused to expand the distribution of surplus food to the hungry , and failed to offer one single program to increase the welfare of the American people . But Americans will not forget Mr. Nixon 's party this November - and they will return the Democrats to leadership so that all Americans can share in American abundance .
% argument 94 corresponds to the sentence The inequity between employees in the same establishment will be abolished . The justification for applying the proposed new minimum wage to the newly covered employees is the same as the reasoning which supports the increase in the minimum . The employees have the same needs .
% argument 95 corresponds to the sentence a57
% argument 96 corresponds to the sentence I do n't think the monetary and fiscal policies which this administration has followed are good enough . I believe that when they stand against the minimum wage of $ 1.25 an hour , I think they are standing in the way of progress . We have high interest rates and as a partial result we built this year 200,000 less homes than we needed in this country to stay up with our population .
% argument 97 corresponds to the sentence Cuba is important but so are our relations with the Soviet Union , the problems of Latin America , Africa , and Asia . Equally important are the domestic issues which you and the Republican Party seem to wish to bury during this campaign - minimum wage , medical care for the aged , aid to education , and the rising rate of unemployment ; only a week ago you stated you were going to talk about Quemoy and Matsu every day for the final 3 weeks of the campaign . Now it is Cuba .
% argument 98 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon believes that the program which we have recommended , of medical care for the aged tied to social security , is extreme . He believes , and has said so , that $ 1.25 an hour minimum wage is extreme . [ Response from the audience .
% argument 99 corresponds to the sentence Senator John F. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , tonight expressed strong satisfaction with the minimum wage bill , voted by the Senate 62 to 34 . The minimum wage bill , as passed by the Senate today , will extend protection of the minimum wage and the overtime requirements to approximately 4 million additional employees and will also provide for an increase to $ 1.25 in the existing minimum wage . The bill which passed the Senate provides for new coverage for employees of retail and retail service enterprises having annual gross sales of a million dollars or more , for employees in laundries with an annual gross sales of a million dollars , for local transit workers , seamen , telephone operators , and employees engaged in fish processing .
% argument 100 corresponds to the sentence By demonstrating that you are able and willing to assume your responsibilities on the local level , that you can be alert to the future needs of our citizens , that you can emphasize cooperation , instead of duplication , with other local governments , you have demonstrated your readiness to join with leaders at every level of government , and in both political parties , to make this a better , wiser , stronger America . Senator John F. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , tonight expressed strong satisfaction with the minimum wage bill , voted by the Senate 62 to 34 . The minimum wage bill , as passed by the Senate today , will extend protection of the minimum wage and the overtime requirements to approximately 4 million additional employees and will also provide for an increase to $ 1.25 in the existing minimum wage .
% argument 101 corresponds to the sentence The fact of the matter is that Mr. Nixon leads a party which has opposed progress for 25 years , and he is a representative of it . He leads a party which in 1935 voted 90 percent against a 25-cent minimum wage , and he leads a party which voted 90 percent in 1960 against $ 1.25 an hour minimum wage . [ Response from the audience .
% argument 102 corresponds to the sentence  [ Applause . ] When a political party votes , in 1935 , 98 percent against the 25-cent minimum wage , I know what the party stands for ; and when that same political party in 1960 votes in the House of Representatives 85 percent against $ 1.25 minimum wage in 1960 , I know the Republican Party stands where it has always stood-against ; not for , but against . Mr. Nixon leads a party which regards $ 1.25 minimum wage as extreme , which regards medical care for the aged tied to social security as extreme .
% argument 103 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Here in the State of Michigan , in this great industrial State , it is between those who are the leaders of the Republican Party who have spilled this country into three recessions in the last 8 years , who have opposed every piece of progressive legislation for the benefit of our people , for care to the aged , employment for our people , minimum wage , education for our children , better opportunity for all of our citizens , it is between that group on the one hand and those who want to pick this country up and move it forward on the other . [ Applause .
% argument 104 corresponds to the sentence [ Laughter . ] The fact of the matter is that in every field of needed legislation which serves our people in the last 25 years , I can not recall a single occasion in which a majority of the Republicans were committed to progress , whether it is minimum wage , whether it is social security , whether it is housing for the elderly , whether it is aid to education - all these programs upon which the basis of a society is founded , which permits all of our people to participate in the benefits of that society , the Democrats have stood for progress and the Republicans have stood for the past . I do n't come to you saying ,  Forget what party I belong to .
% argument 105 corresponds to the sentence Social security ? They voted against it . Minimum wage ? Unemployment compensation ? Housing ? Name it . This administration has stood still , and the result is that the image of America as a moving society throughout the world has stood still .
% argument 106 corresponds to the sentence Third , we must work to establish decent , adequate and fair national standards of unemployment compensation and minimum wages . The raising of the minimum wage and its extension to cover millions of unprotected American workers must be one of the first items on the agenda of the next administration . Our unemployment benefits , too , must be standardized and extended .
% argument 107 corresponds to the sentence Secondly , I have tried in this campaign to set before the American people their unfinished agenda - the tasks which Franklin Roosevelt did not foresee in 1933 - the tasks which Harry Truman could not complete by 1953 - and the tasks on which in 8 Republican years we never even started . We have a minimum wage , but to be of any help at today 's prices it must be raised to $ 1.25 an hour . We have social security , but to meet the most basic need of older people today , it must be amended to include medical care .
% argument 108 corresponds to the sentence I would answer the question , hoping that I am hitting the point , and if it does n't , if he will call back in , we will give this question priority . I have answered the question by saying that I favor the raising of the minimum wage to $ 1.15 . I also favor extending coverage to 3 million people not presently covered .
% argument 109 corresponds to the sentence Quite obviously they did in both the House and Senate . But if you take the minimum wage conference as I said yesterday , every Democrat participating in that conference but one voted for the $ 1.25 , every Republican participating in that conference except one voted against it . Six out of seven supported the $ 1.25 and six out of seven voted against it .
% argument 110 corresponds to the sentence I run against a candidate and a party which has opposed in the last 25 years every piece of progressive legislation put forward . Minimum wage - Mr. Nixon 's Republican Party voted 90 percent against a 25-cent minimum wage in the midthirties , and they voted 90 percent against the $ 1.25 in 1960 . They voted 90 percent against social security in the midthirties , and they voted 90 percent against the medical care for the aged tied to social security in 1960 .
% argument 111 corresponds to the sentence That is the party which voted 90 percent against social security in the midthirties , voted 90 percent against medical care for the aged in 1960 . Mr. Nixon represents a party which voted 95 percent against tlie 25-cent minimum wage in the thirties . He represents a party which voted [ response from the audience ] - I am doing my best .
% argument 112 corresponds to the sentence They talked . But what did they produce ? They promised a 25-percent minimum wage increase in place of the program that President Eisenhower asked for and that could have been passed and should have been passed . What did the workers get ? Nothing at all .
% argument 113 corresponds to the sentence I urge the President to act now . The intentions of the Republicans today was to use civil rights legislation to block the enactment of bills for Federal-aid to education , housing , medical assistance to the aged and the lifting of the minimum wage . The evidence lies in the fact that it was Senator Dirksen himself last April 1 who moved to table the very Government Contracts Commission proposal which he now purports to support .
% argument 114 corresponds to the sentence Those who are too poor , uninformed , too uneducated to enjoy their constitutional freedoms of choice , do not really possess those freedoms . That is why we fight so hard for minimum wage legislation , for better housing , for social security protection in illness in old age . In order to participate in the other great freedoms we have to have a standard of living for our people so that they can enjoy them .
% argument 115 corresponds to the sentence a129
% argument 116 corresponds to the sentence He did not equivocate , because he was the President of the United States . The Lincoln tradition is not found in a man who considers $ 1.25 minimum wage to be , and I quote him  extreme .  The Lincoln tradition of courage [ applause ] is not found in a man who considers Federal aid for education and teachers salaries to be  extreme ,  and I quote him accurately , and who calls helping our older citizens through the medium of social security to provide medical care for their aged life - who considers that to be  extreme .
% argument 117 corresponds to the sentence Sixth , we must revise our outmoded unemployment compensation laws to allow men to receive full benefit payments while they are engaged in retraining programs . Seventh and finally , we must restore full employment to our schedule of national priorities - striving - for a more rapid growth of the American economy - building purchasing power through better minimum wage and unemployment compensation laws - having faith in America 's capacity to eventually provide a productive job for every man who wants to work . This is our program - a program which can help transform the threat of automation into the promise of abundance - a program which will require leadership inspired by both compassion and courage - a program which will require from labor , management , and Government a willingness to accept new concepts , new burdens and new risks to meet the challenge of automation 's new frontier .
% argument 118 corresponds to the sentence And , so I want to make clear where we do stand . I favor programs , programs that are constructive , programs that will work , programs that will produce progress ; more schools , a breakthrough in science , a breakthrough in medical care and medical research , progress in terms of better jobs for the American people , raising the minimum standards as far as our minimum wage , and our unemployment coverage is concerned . All of these things I stand for , but I want to make one thing clear : As far as the cost of my programs are concerned , they are billions less than what my opponent 's would cost .
% argument 119 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Mr. Nixon leads a party which in 1935 voted 99 percent against the 25-cent minimum wage . And Mr. Nixon last week said $ 1.25 minimum wage is inflationary .
% argument 120 corresponds to the sentence This is something we have been saying all along . The Nation should take this confession at its face value or it is Mr. Nixon and his party who have steadfastly opposed measures needed by the people of this country - who have fought raising the minimum wage to $ 1.25 , who have vetoed adequate measures for housing and education , who have opposed the raising of teachers ' salaries , who have fought the setting up of an adequate medical care plan under social security , who have twice vetoed bills destined to give America 's depressed areas a chance . Mr. Nixon 's statement in Phoenix is just another example of how he talks out of both sides of his mouth .
% argument 121 corresponds to the sentence The two can not be separated . The man who opposes a decent increase in the minimum wage is not likely to be more generous toward a badly underpaid schoolteacher . The man who opposes proper medical care for the aged has no more compassion for the small farmer or the small businessman or the hungry families in this Nation and around the world .
% argument 122 corresponds to the sentence I do n't stand where Mr. Nixon stands . I do n't take his view about [ applause ] - I do n't say that $ 1.25 minimum wage is extreme . I do n't lead a party that voted nearly unanimously against 25 cents minimum wage .
% argument 123 corresponds to the sentence They vetoed the housing bill . They killed the $ 1.25 minimum wage . They opposed medical care for the aged .
% argument 124 corresponds to the sentence In 1935 , 90 percent of the Republicans voted against social security . In 1937 and 1938 , 90 percent of the Republicans voted against the 25-cent minimum wage . This summer , when we tried to improve the standards of social security by providing medical care for the aged tied to social security , again the great majority of the Republicans , over 90 percent , voted against medical care for the aged tied to social security .
% argument 125 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon leads the same party that voted 90 percent against the social security in the midthirties and vote 90 percent against the medical care for the aged tied to social security in 1960 . Anybody who wants that kind of progress , anybody who wants that kind of prosperity , anybody who wants a pafty that is against housing , minimum wage , social security , equal opportunity , civil rights [ response from the audience ] . And with Martin Luther King in jail Mr. Nixon 's headquarters issued a statement  No comment .
% argument 126 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] The second bill that was up and which is an issue in this campaign was a bill to provide $ 1.25 minimum wage . Four-fifths of the Republicans in the House of Representatives , including the Congressman of this district , who is chairman of the congressional committee for all Republicans , voted against the $ 1.25 minimum wage for a 40-hour week , not for a business which is only ten , fifteen , or twenty-five thousand dollars a year , but for a business which makes more than $ 1 million a year , we wanted to pay them $ 1.25 by 1962 , not this year , but 1962 , and to pay those that were not covered by 1964 $ 1.25 , and four-fifths of the Republicans voted against it .
% argument 127 corresponds to the sentence I just do n't believe that the 1960 's is a time to stand still . Every piece of important legislation of benefit to our people was opposed by the Republicans when they first came into being , away back to the Federal Reserve Board , all the reforms of the Roosevelt administration , social security , all the others , minimum wage , housing , benefits to the farmers , all opposed . Now , with that long history , TVA , the development of our resources , all in opposition , with that long history , how can we expect that that party and that candidate can move this country ahead , with all the changes coming on , the prospects for unemployment , the recession possibly this winter in 1961 , with our farm income down 25 percent , with 35 percent of our brightest boys and girls never seeing the inside of a college , who graduate from high school , our prestige in the world being affected , with Communists on the march , Castro on the march .
% argument 128 corresponds to the sentence And Roosevelt and Landon , and Truman and Dewey . Where did they get those candidates ? The Republican Party for 25 years has put up candidates , and , as a party , has taken the position against every piece of progressive legislation that serves the people , from minimum wage to unemployment compensation , to better housing , to aid for education , to more equal rights for all Americans , for a stronger defense for a stronger and more vital society . The Republican Party , ever since it drove Theodore Roosevelt into the wilderness 50 years ago , has stood still .
% argument 129 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon leads a party that voted 90 percent in the 1930 's against a 25-cent minimum wage . He leads a party that voted 90 percent against $ 1.25 minimum wage in 1960 . Mr. Nixon leads a party that controlled the House , the Senate and the White House in 1953 and 1954 .
% argument 130 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] Mr. Nixon considers a minimum wage of $ 1.25 to be extreme . Mr. Nixon considers Federal aid to make sure that teachers are paid a decent salary to be extreme .
% argument 131 corresponds to the sentence [ Laughter . ] He voted as a Congressman in 1949 to take 1 million people out from under the coverage of the Minimum Wage Act . Mr. Nixon and the Republicans have stood against the progress since time began , and I believe in 1960 , in Michigan , which knows the significance of this election , I believe in Michigan and the United States , they are not going to entrust leadership to a candidate and a party that looks to the past .
% argument 132 corresponds to the sentence Our disagreements are deep . I come from a party which believes in $ 1.25 minimum wage . [ Applause .
% argument 133 corresponds to the sentence I think , as you are aware , you actually have three bills which are potentially before the Congress . You have the Kennedy bill , which would raise the minimum wage on a graduated basis to a dollar and a quarter in 3 years , and which would expand coverage to 5 million people not presently covered . You have the House bill , which would raise the minimum wage to $ 1.15 in 1 year , and which would expand coverage to a much lower number , approximately a million , net increase .
% argument 134 corresponds to the sentence The misstatement : In the second debate Senator Kennedy said : The Republicans in recent years , not only in the last 25 years , but in the last 8 years , have opposed * * * minimum wage * * The facts : Senator Kennedy is saying that Republicans who opposed his particular bill are against minimum wage . The administration supported an increase in the minimum wage in 1955 , and in 1957 urged legislation to extend minimum wage coverage to some 3 million additional workers , an extension which the Democratic-led Congress failed to approve . In 1960 , this administration sought to extend minimum wage coverage to 3.1 million additional workers and indicated support of an increase in the minimum wage to $ 1.15 per hour .
% argument 135 corresponds to the sentence A Republican candidate and a Republican President , representing as he does those interests and members of the Republican Party , must take a particular position on a particular issue . Is it any accident that for the last 25 years the Republicans have voted against the minimum wage nearly every time ? They voted against the 25 cents in 1935 , and they voted against the $ 1.25 in 1960 . They voted against the social security in 1935 , and they voted against the medical care for the aged in 1960 .
% argument 136 corresponds to the sentence I think it is a good question because it goes to the heart of the matter which I was trying to point to before . In the case of the minimum wage , we passed out of the Senate by a vote of nearly 2 to 1. That was the $ 1.25 minimum wage . Earlier , the House of Representatives passed a bill by , I think , nine votes against the $ 1.25 minimum wage , in favor of a wholly inadequate coverage under minimum wage which affected only about 1 million people .
% argument 137 corresponds to the sentence A shift of four or five votes in the House last June would have enacted a real minimum wage bill , with coverage for several million more families and a minimum of $ 1.25 an hour . Next January we will have those votes - and you will have a President who knows what a strong minimum wage law means to stop runaway shops and to raise living standards . I ask you also to elect John Swainson as Governor of Michigan - a great Governor to succeed a great Governor .
% argument 138 corresponds to the sentence a105
% argument 139 corresponds to the sentence First , it will raise the minimum wage now received by 2 1/2 million workers from $ 1.10 to $ 1.25 an hour . Second , it will extend the protection of the Fair Labor Standards Act to 5 million additional employees , chiefly in large-scale interstate retail and service industries , thereby guaranteeing these employees a fair minimum wage and a just premium for overtime . Conscience and good business sense join in demanding the enactment of this measure .
% argument 140 corresponds to the sentence We received the support of 44 Democratic Senators and 1 Republican Senator , and we were warned that there would be a veto . When we tried to pass a bill to provide $ 1.25 minimum wage , which is $ 50 a week for our workers , we passed it in the Senate , and we were warned that if we passed it in the conference , it would be vetoed . The fact of the matter is that the Republican Party in this century has said  No  to progress and the Democrats have said  Yes .
% argument 141 corresponds to the sentence This summer , when we tried to improve the standards of social security by providing medical care for the aged tied to social security , again the great majority of the Republicans , over 90 percent , voted against medical care for the aged tied to social security . Eighty percent of the members of the House of Representatives who are Republicans voted against the $ 1.25 minimum wage , $ 50 a week for a 40-hour week for an industry , a business , that makes more than a million dollars a year . How can anybody live on it ? No Member of the Congress could .
% argument 142 corresponds to the sentence I want to ask them three questions . They talk about prosperity : No.1, Mr. Nixon says $ 1.25 a hour minimum wage is extreme . Ninety percent of the Republicans voted against it .
% argument 143 corresponds to the sentence My opponent wants to win . Why do n't I say ,  Let 's have a dollar and a half ?  Why not a $ 2 minimum wage ? Why not $ 5 ? And here you get the basic economic principles . If you raise the minimum wage , in my opinion - and all the experts confirm this that I have talked to in the Government - above $ 1.15 , it would mean unemployment ; unemployment , because there are many industries that could not pay more than $ 1.15 without cutting down their work force ; $ 1.15 can be absorbed , and then at a later time we could move to $ 1.25 as the economy moves up .
% argument 144 corresponds to the sentence a3
% argument 145 corresponds to the sentence More detailed study of 15 low-wage industries showed that employment rose in some industries after the $ 1 minimum was put into effect and declined in others . Evidently the change in the minimum wage was not a determinative factor . In order to obtain a still broader view , the study was extended in six communities so as to include both covered and noncovered industries .
% argument 146 corresponds to the sentence I believe the American people prefer their experience under the Democratic Party . Our experience is written in the Social Security Act , the minimum wage laws , the FHA , the REA , guaranteed bank deposits , TVA and a host of other programs . The Bible tells us that  whatsoever a man soweth , that shall he also reap .
% argument 147 corresponds to the sentence a181
% argument 148 corresponds to the sentence The third point on which we differ is in the record of our party , and the promise that that record gives to the future . Ninety percent of the Republicans voted against a 25-cent minimum wage in 1935 , and 90 percent of them voted against the $ 1.25 an hour in 1960 , which Mr. Nixon considers extreme . Ninety percent of the Republicans voted against the social security in the midthirties and 95 percent in 1960 voted against the medical care for the aged tied to social security .
% argument 149 corresponds to the sentence The principle is the same . It is our responsibility to bring those programs , extension of the right to vote , civil rights , minimum wage , housing , education , to increase the opportunity for all Americans to share in the abundance . And I do not share the view of the Vice President that these programs are extreme ; $ 1.25 minimum wage , not this year , not until 1962 , for those people already covered , not until 1964 for the newly covered , and still that bill was voted against by 75 to 80 percent of the Members of the House of Representatives who are Republicans .
% argument 150 corresponds to the sentence a161
% argument 151 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] The Republican Party , which in 1935 voted almost unanimously against the 25-cent minimum wage , voted almost unanimously against the $ 1.25 in 1960 . A Republican Party , which in 1935 voted 95 to 1 in the House of Representatives against the social security bill , voted 44 to 1 , with only one Republican , for medical care for the aged in the last session of the Congress .
% argument 152 corresponds to the sentence  Today the Fair Labor Standards Act , with its guarantee of a decent minimum wage , has become an established feature of the American economic System but in 1937 a leading Republican Congressman warned that  if you pass this bill * * * gone with the wind is our democratic system of government and all the institutions we hold dear .  Other Republicans attacked minimum wage as  communism  and the  road to economic hell  - 93 percent of the Republicans in Congress voted to kill the bill calling for a 25-cent minimum wage and the Republicans have opposed every increase in the minimum wage ever since . Today the Social Security Act is regarded as the most important and beneficial single piece of social legislation in American history .
% argument 153 corresponds to the sentence a109
% argument 154 corresponds to the sentence Rather , I believe they will elect a candidate whose own philosophy and that of his party - the Democratic Party - has been consistent in the people 's interest at home and abroad . Mr. Nixon can call it practical progressivism or economic conservatism , but the label does not hide the package - which has been Mr. Nixon 's and the Republican Party 's constant opposition to meeting the needs of our people , opposition to $ 1.25 minimum wage , opposition to aid to education , opposition to medical care for the aged under social security , opposition to decent housing , opposition to adequate aid to the Nation 's depressed areas . Mr. Nixon can apply any label be wants to this record , but the record speaks far more eloquently than his changing definitions , tailored to suit the needs of his audiences , one label for the South , another for the North , another for the West , and still another for the East .
% argument 155 corresponds to the sentence Mr. Nixon represents a party that voted against it , and Mr. Nixon himself voted against it . I represent a party which tried to pass a minimum wage of $ 1.25 this summer . Mr. Nixon represents a party that voted 80 percent against it in the House of Representatives .
% argument 156 corresponds to the sentence [ Applause . ] And , therefore , the same political party which could vote nearly 90 to 1 against social security in 1935 , could vote against medical care , with only 1 vote for it , in 1960 , or the same party that voted 95 percent against the 25-cent minimum wage in 1935 could be opposed to $ 1.25 in 1960 . I believe that individuals and parties have characteristics and , therefore , the Republican candidates could run from the 20th century on slogans like  Stand Pat With McKinley  and  Return to Normalcy With Harding  and  Keep Cool With Coolidge .
% argument 157 corresponds to the sentence When income goes down and the cost of living goes up , who is hit the hardest ? 1. Next to those who ca n't find any work at all , those on an inadequate unemployment compensation or public assistance payment , the hardest hit by the job-price squeeze are those Americans who are forced to work for substandard wages . This year the Democratic Party tried to raise the minimum wage to $ 1.25 an hour , to $ 50 for a 48-hour week . Mr. Nixon opposed this measure .
arg(a137).
arg(a59).
arg(a114).
arg(a126).
arg(a81).
arg(a71).
arg(a130).
arg(a31).
arg(a157).
arg(a142).
arg(a29).
arg(a85).
arg(a57).
arg(a132).
arg(a67).
arg(a91).
arg(a84).
arg(a53).
arg(a145).
arg(a19).
arg(a55).
arg(a73).
arg(a138).
arg(a135).
arg(a38).
arg(a144).
arg(a48).
arg(a98).
arg(a110).
arg(a82).
arg(a24).
arg(a42).
arg(a33).
arg(a65).
arg(a134).
arg(a66).
arg(a21).
arg(a34).
arg(a5).
arg(a148).
arg(a13).
arg(a108).
arg(a95).
arg(a93).
arg(a125).
arg(a113).
arg(a124).
arg(a86).
arg(a12).
arg(a47).
arg(a131).
arg(a117).
arg(a123).
arg(a14).
arg(a22).
arg(a150).
arg(a119).
arg(a118).
arg(a90).
arg(a28).
arg(a18).
arg(a77).
arg(a25).
arg(a129).
arg(a32).
arg(a94).
arg(a62).
arg(a127).
arg(a89).
arg(a40).
arg(a109).
arg(a36).
arg(a128).
arg(a103).
arg(a60).
arg(a120).
arg(a70).
arg(a44).
arg(a17).
arg(a149).
arg(a76).
arg(a1).
arg(a51).
arg(a112).
arg(a52).
arg(a87).
arg(a58).
arg(a41).
arg(a72).
arg(a11).
arg(a139).
arg(a64).
arg(a10).
arg(a27).
arg(a20).
arg(a49).
arg(a146).
arg(a37).
arg(a61).
arg(a156).
arg(a102).
arg(a4).
arg(a75).
arg(a2).
arg(a45).
arg(a121).
arg(a63).
arg(a106).
arg(a115).
arg(a54).
arg(a39).
arg(a152).
arg(a133).
arg(a8).
arg(a153).
arg(a78).
arg(a143).
arg(a140).
arg(a151).
arg(a83).
arg(a107).
arg(a116).
arg(a16).
arg(a155).
arg(a92).
arg(a79).
arg(a100).
arg(a97).
arg(a80).
arg(a69).
arg(a105).
arg(a99).
arg(a7).
arg(a26).
arg(a6).
arg(a9).
arg(a23).
arg(a96).
arg(a3).
arg(a68).
arg(a46).
arg(a111).
arg(a104).
arg(a35).
arg(a154).
arg(a15).
arg(a50).
arg(a56).
arg(a101).
arg(a122).
arg(a30).
arg(a43).
arg(a141).
arg(a88).
arg(a74).
arg(a147).
arg(a136).
sup(a137, a67).
att(a59, a65).
sup(a59, a94).
sup(a59, a75).
att(a126, a67).
sup(a126, a49).
sup(a81, a113).
att(a130, a118).
sup(a157, a58).
att(a29, a78).
att(a29, a134).
att(a85, a134).
sup(a67, a139).
sup(a84, a157).
att(a53, a37).
att(a55, a78).
att(a55, a92).
att(a138, a92).
sup(a138, a12).
sup(a138, a80).
sup(a138, a27).
sup(a135, a115).
sup(a135, a73).
att(a38, a78).
att(a144, a134).
att(a144, a92).
sup(a144, a71).
sup(a144, a152).
sup(a144, a153).
sup(a144, a63).
att(a48, a78).
sup(a48, a96).
att(a110, a134).
sup(a82, a80).
sup(a82, a44).
att(a42, a65).
att(a33, a82).
att(a33, a142).
att(a33, a61).
att(a33, a152).
att(a65, a145).
att(a134, a102).
att(a134, a40).
att(a134, a119).
att(a134, a25).
att(a134, a87).
att(a134, a122).
att(a134, a54).
att(a134, a36).
att(a134, a128).
att(a66, a65).
sup(a66, a49).
sup(a21, a157).
sup(a21, a38).
att(a34, a78).
att(a34, a92).
sup(a34, a54).
sup(a148, a32).
att(a108, a98).
att(a108, a127).
att(a95, a92).
sup(a95, a81).
sup(a125, a144).
sup(a125, a60).
att(a124, a134).
att(a86, a92).
att(a12, a78).
att(a12, a134).
sup(a47, a25).
att(a131, a78).
att(a131, a92).
att(a123, a65).
att(a22, a7).
sup(a150, a116).
sup(a90, a113).
sup(a28, a132).
sup(a28, a31).
sup(a18, a25).
sup(a77, a65).
sup(a129, a79).
att(a32, a134).
sup(a32, a71).
att(a62, a78).
att(a62, a92).
att(a89, a133).
sup(a40, a150).
sup(a36, a118).
att(a103, a92).
att(a60, a134).
att(a70, a133).
sup(a44, a43).
att(a17, a118).
att(a76, a134).
att(a1, a78).
sup(a1, a130).
att(a51, a134).
sup(a51, a96).
att(a112, a59).
att(a112, a45).
att(a112, a5).
att(a112, a70).
att(a112, a56).
att(a112, a41).
att(a112, a117).
att(a112, a100).
att(a112, a153).
sup(a87, a118).
sup(a11, a111).
sup(a11, a138).
att(a64, a67).
att(a20, a133).
att(a146, a78).
sup(a37, a82).
att(a4, a6).
att(a4, a2).
att(a4, a116).
att(a4, a95).
att(a75, a133).
sup(a2, a137).
att(a45, a65).
att(a121, a67).
sup(a63, a138).
sup(a63, a124).
att(a106, a65).
sup(a106, a94).
att(a115, a133).
att(a39, a65).
sup(a152, a86).
sup(a153, a150).
att(a78, a16).
att(a78, a31).
att(a78, a156).
att(a78, a154).
att(a78, a128).
att(a78, a96).
att(a143, a72).
att(a143, a101).
att(a143, a144).
sup(a151, a112).
sup(a151, a26).
sup(a151, a52).
att(a83, a133).
att(a83, a65).
att(a107, a33).
sup(a116, a89).
att(a155, a78).
sup(a155, a149).
att(a92, a91).
att(a92, a119).
att(a92, a130).
att(a92, a25).
att(a92, a50).
att(a92, a31).
att(a92, a54).
att(a92, a128).
att(a92, a96).
sup(a92, a114).
att(a79, a78).
sup(a79, a13).
sup(a100, a67).
att(a97, a78).
att(a97, a134).
sup(a97, a153).
sup(a97, a25).
sup(a80, a122).
sup(a69, a30).
att(a99, a65).
sup(a99, a67).
att(a7, a97).
att(a7, a18).
att(a7, a28).
att(a7, a68).
att(a7, a131).
att(a7, a95).
att(a7, a29).
att(a7, a32).
att(a7, a124).
att(a7, a85).
att(a7, a103).
att(a7, a48).
att(a7, a144).
sup(a6, a140).
sup(a6, a93).
sup(a6, a24).
att(a9, a134).
sup(a9, a25).
sup(a9, a16).
sup(a68, a120).
sup(a68, a25).
att(a46, a134).
att(a46, a92).
sup(a104, a51).
att(a35, a67).
sup(a15, a10).
sup(a101, a82).
sup(a101, a61).
sup(a101, a21).
att(a43, a118).
att(a141, a78).
att(a141, a134).
att(a141, a92).
sup(a141, a8).
sup(a141, a71).
sup(a88, a118).
att(a74, a78).
sup(a74, a58).
sup(a147, a36).
sup(a136, a67).
